Futures traded in Kuala Lumpur plunged to the lowest level since October 2009 as supplies of the world?s most-consumed cooking oil exceeded demand. Global stockpiles of the oil that?s used in everything from candy to biofuel will surge 21 percent to a record 9.7 million metric tons by the end of 2013-2014 as demand expands 4.6 percent, the least in 12 years, the US Department of Agriculture says. The contract for delivery in November fell as much as 1.6 percent to 2,402 ringgit $729 a metric ton and ended the morning trading session at 2,414 ringgit on the Bursa Malaysia Derivatives. Futures, which dropped 20 percent in the past year, are set to rise 8 percent this month, the biggest monthly gain since December 2010. Indonesia will increase its biodiesel blend requirements to cut spending on imports, Susilo Siswoutomo, deputy energy minister, said on Thursday. Inventories have declined 37 percent to 1.66 million tons in July from a record in December, according to data from the nation?s palm oil board. Palm oil may average 2,395 ringgit a ton in the third quarter and around 2,438 ringgit in the fourth quarter as improving Chinese and US economies support prices, Embas said. The agency is monitoring the market and ?stands ready? to respond if there?s a major supply disruption, the Paris-based adviser to 28 energy-consuming nations. ?The IEA is obviously concerned about the harmful effects of high?oil prices?on the global economic recovery,? Greg Frost, a Paris-based spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. ?Prices at these levels cause hardship both in IEA countries and especially emerging economies.? The IEA coordinated the release of 60 million barrels of crude and oil products in June 2011 to offset lost supplies from Libya, where an uprising against?Muammar Qaddafi?almost halted the country?s oil exports. Brent fell 8 percent in the two days after the announcement of that intervention, the third use of reserves in the agency?s history. Brent has climbed 12 percent since July 1 amid unrest in?Egypt, declining supply from Libya and the escalating conflict in Syria. Contracts of the North Sea benchmark, used to price more than half of the world?s oil, for October delivery rose to a six-month high yesterday on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in?London. It was down 1.2 percent at $115.18 at 2:29 p.m. in New York. Libya?s oil production fell to one-eighth of its capacity as protests over pay and allegations of corruption spread to fields operated by?Eni SpA ENI ?and Repsol SA, according to executives at the state oil company. Output from the North African OPEC nation slumped to about 200,000 barrels a day, compared with 640,000 in August and its optimal capacity of 1.6 million, National Oil Corp. Chairman Nuri Berruien said in an interview Aug. 27 from Tripoli. Tensions in the?Middle East?have fanned concern that shipments from oil-producing nations may be disrupted. The region accounted for 35 percent of global oil output in the first quarter of this year, according to IEA data. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, responsible for 40 percent of world supplies and whose members include Libya, declined to comment yesterday on the impact of the supply disruption. Reuters - Longview Power LLC filed for Chapter 11bankruptcy?on Friday and blamed a unit of Germany's Siemens AG for glitches at Longview's $2 billion West Virginia power plant that left it unable to pay its debts. The coal-fired plant in Maidsville has a capacity to generate about 700 megawatts of electrical power and was among the largest?construction?projects in West Virginia's history. However, it has been plagued by construction delays and legal problems since it was proposed more than a decade ago. The plant was funded by a $1 billion equity investment by First Reserve Corp, a private equity firm focused on energy, and about $1 billion in debt. About $557 million in debt matures in February, according to documents filed in the U.S.?Bankruptcy?Court in Delaware. The bankruptcy filing was aimed at preventing a default on an interest payment due Friday, which in turn would have caused a default on a $59 million letter of credit. The company has been in consensual negotiations with our senior lenders toward a Chapter 11 plan to maximize value. We remain confident that the company and our lenders will reach an agreement on the terms of a Chapter 11 plan in the near term, Chief Executive Jeffery Keffer said in a statement. The company blamed its bankruptcy primarily on what it called the failures by the contractors which built the plant, delaying its opening by nine months and limiting the plant's capacity. Siemens Energy led a team that also included units of Foster Wheeler AG and Kvaerner ASA of?Norway. Siemens and Foster Wheeler did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Kvaerner could not be reached for comment, but said in its annual report that?construction?delays were caused by changes to the project and the supply of services and materials. The legal disputes are currently before an arbitration panel, but Keffer said in court documents the company plans to seek an expedited hearing on the disputes in the bankruptcy court. In addition to Longview Power, 12 affiliates also filed for bankruptcy protection, including the company's Mepco?coal?business which owns or operates four mines in West Virginia and Pennsylvania. The mines produce about 4 million tons of coal annually, according to court records. GenPower Holdings is Longview's ultimate parent. Longview is represented by Kirkland & Ellis LLP, as primary restructuring counsel, and Dentons US LLP for all issues related to company's pending arbitration proceedings. August is about to end without an Atlantic hurricane for the first time since 2002, calling into question predictions of a more active storm season than normal. Six tropical systems have formed in the Atlantic since the season began June 1 and none of them has grown to hurricane strength with winds of at least 74 miles 120 kilometers per hour. Accumulated cyclone energy in the Atlantic, a measure of tropical power, is about 30 percent of where it normally would be, said?Phil Klotzbach, lead author of?Colorado State University?s seasonal hurricane forecasts. ?At this point, I doubt that a super-active?hurricane season?will happen,? Klotzbach said in an e-mail yesterday. The most active part of the Atlantic season runs from Aug. 20 to about the first week of October. The statistical peak occurs on Sept. 10, according to the?National Hurricane Center?in Miami. Two storms formed in August and the hurricane center is tracking two areas of thunderstorms that have low to medium chances of becoming tropical systems within five days Atlantic storms are watched closely because they disrupt energy operations in and around the?Gulf of Mexico?and cause widespread destruction when they come ashore. In the basin now, warm sea water and a decreasing amount of wind shear that can tear at the structure of budding storms mean conditions are ripe ?for a burst of activity,? said?Todd Crawford, chief meteorologist at Weather Services International in Andover,?Massachusetts. ?The very inactive season so far has been a bit of a head-scratcher,? Crawford said in an e-mail interview. Air temperatures from the Caribbean to?Africa?have been warmer than normal this year, reducing the instability in the atmosphere that drives storm development, he said. In addition, dry air is being pulled off Africa into the Atlantic, which also cuts storm activity, he said. Seasonal predictions were for an above-normal season. The 30-year average is for 12 storms with winds of at least 39 miles per hour, the threshold at which they are named. Nineteen such systems formed in each of the last three years. Colorado State, which pioneered seasonal forecasts, retreated slightly on its outlook in an early August update, calling for 18 named storms. Eight should be hurricanes and three of them major hurricanes, a reduction of one at each level, the researchers said. The?National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration?also kept its call for an above-average season in an Aug. 8 outlook for 13 to 19 named storms, six to nine hurricanes and three to five major systems. ?If you don?t get your first hurricane by or before August, it?s extremely difficult to get those high storm counts, especially for hurricanes and major hurricanes,? said?Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,?Maryland. ?Amazing we?re on the 90th day of the hurricane season and no hurricanes yet.? While water temperatures in the Atlantic, Caribbean and Gulf of?Mexico?are high enough to spark hurricane formation, wind shear across the central part of the ocean has been high, Klotzbach said. Shear is when the winds at different altitudes blow at varying speeds or directions, which can tear at the structure of a budding tropical system. According to the?U.S. Climate Prediction Center, there has been a lot of wind shear in the Atlantic between the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean and?Cape Verde?off the coast of Africa. This zone is often referred to as the main development region for Atlantic hurricanes, particularly in August and September. ?We haven?t had a hurricane and we don?t see anything that looks highly robust,? said Dan Kottlowski, an expert senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in?State College,?Pennsylvania. ?It just goes to show you that having warm water isn?t everything.? For natural gas markets, hurricanes have shifted from being major output disruptions, in part because so much production has shifted to land, to being ?load killers? that cut electricity demand as temperatures drop, said Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in New York. The Gulf of Mexico is home to about 6 percent of U.S. natural gas output, 23 percent of oil production and more than 45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy Department. In 2001, Gulf waters accounted for 24 percent of U.S. marketed gas production. A quiet first half to the Atlantic storm season doesn?t mean the second will be the same, she said. ?It?s not over until it?s over,? Viswanath said. Hurricane Sandy, which slammed into New York and?New Jersey?last year, developed on Oct. 22 and went ashore on Oct. 29. It killed at least 159 people and damaged or destroyed more than 650,000 homes in the U.S., according to a?federal task force?report Aug. 19. Crawford also said the 2013 season could rebound now that September has begun. He expects some of the barriers that have damped activity so far to fall. The 2002 season, the last to pass without a hurricane by the end of August, included?Hurricane Lili, a Category 4 storm that caused about $860 million in damage and killed at least 13 people in the Caribbean and?Louisiana?from Sept. 21 to Oct. 4, according to the hurricane center. The first hurricane to form that year was Gustav, on Sept. 11. ?On Sept. 9, if there is nothing to talk about, you can call me and we can write off the season,? said Michael Schlacter, founder of Weather 2000 in?New York. ?I think in the next 10 days there will be a lot of things to discuss.? ?This is a win-win-win situation,? ADB Energy Specialist Sohail Hasnie said. ?West Kalimantan gets renewable energy and will have the ability to exchange power; Sarawak starts its first export of hydropower; and the region moves one step closer to establishing a regional power transmission link that crosses Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia and Malaysia.? The Malaysian government-run Sarawak Energy aims to turn the state into a regional producer of cheap hydroelectric power by 2020,?according to Reuters? reports. But the $110 billion plan?has its share of detractors, from local indigenous people, who would likely lose their land, to environmental activists, who have mobilized against the flooding of vast tracts of rainforests to create reservoirs. In Indonesia, the project is expected to save PLN some $100 million a year in oil costs. The integrated grid, which includes the construction of high-voltage lines and a power substation, is expected to exchange an estimated 230 megawatt-hours of power per hour. ?This will make a long-term relationship with our neighbors and a step forward to making the Asean interconnection a reality,? I Made Ro Sakya, head of power system planning at PLN, said on Wednesday. The bank will provide a second loan to help fund work on the Malaysia side, ADB said in a statement. Work is expected to be complete by December 2014, the statement read. Processing and disposing of the water, enough to fill a very large crude oil tanker or 132 Olympic-size swimming pools, will be one of the most challenging engineering tasks of our generation, former nuclear engineer Michael Friedlander said.Tokyo?Electric has chopped down forest to add more water tanks at the site 220 kilometers 137 miles northeast of Tokyo. The steel?storage tanks?are vulnerable to spills due to earthquakes as well as leaks, representing ?a very clear and present danger to the plant site and to the people working there,? said Friedlander, who spent 13 years operating U.S. nuclear plants, including the Crystal River Station in?Florida. ?There are really only a few ways you can get rid of it,? Friedlander said. ?You put it in the ocean or it?s going to have to be evaporated. It?s a political hotspot, but at some point you cannot just continue collecting this water.? Deciding on a disposal method is increasingly urgent after a series of leaks, including one last week labeled by?Japan?s safety regulator as the most ?severe incident? since the site was disabled by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. Tepco has 300 tons of water flowing into the reactors each day for cooling, while another 400 tons of groundwater from hills behind the plant is seeping into basements and mixing with contaminated run-off. Tepco is then pumping hundreds of tons out of the basements each day to store in tanks to await treatment to extract cesium and strontium via two filter systems. After sufficient processing, the water gets classified as low-level contaminant for disposal. Tepco said this week that the second of the two filter systems failed this month and it won?t be fixed until next month. A leak of at least 300 tons from one of the 1,000-ton storage tanks last week prompted the?Nuclear Regulation Authority?to warn that more may be prone to similar spills. The watchdog also criticized Tepco for management of the tanks. ?This is becoming rapidly an international issue, so I think there is some pressure from countries in the region, including China Korea and others,? said Tom O?Sullivan, founder of Tokyo-based energy consultant Mathyos. ?Took Too Long? Japan?s nuclear industry used the tank storage method even before the Fukushima accident and it has been shown to be ineffective from a safety standpoint,?Joonhong Ahn, a professor in the nuclear engineering department at the?University of California, Berkeley, said. ?The process toward solution is not simple,? yet someone in charge must make the decision to release water with a low level of contamination, Ahn said. ?The remedies taken by Tepco have been very incomplete and took too long.? Tepco has yet to decide how to dispose of the contaminated water, spokeswoman Mayumi Yoshida said. Tepco will need approval from the government, local residents and fishermen before it can act. The company said last week it would seek help from abroad to manage the water issue. Tepco?s top priority is to stop the flow of groundwater, said Ahn. Gavin Fielding, a hydrogeologist based in?Canada?with experience working on environmental project cleanups for the U.S. army, agrees. ?This is a critical step because it reduces the volumes of contaminated groundwater to be managed onsite,? Fielding said by e-mail. ?It also allows work to take place on non-contaminated areas, which increases worker safety and cuts cost dramatically.? Reducing the groundwater flow will allow the company to focus on cleaning out cesium and strontium radionuclides from the stored high-level contaminated water, Berkeley?s Ahn said. Water treatment facilities use filters to remove particles and demineralizers to remove dissolved ions from contaminated water, according to?David Lochbaum, the director of the Union of Concerned Scientists in the U.S. Depending on the amount of contamination, the water may need to be passed several times through the filters and demineralizers until the amount of contamination drops low enough for it to be legally discharged to the ocean or re-used in the plant, he said. The radioactive waste collected in the filters can then be solidified in cement or glass for dry storage, a similar method to how the U.S. stores used nuclear fuel, Berkeley?s Ahn said. Water that?s been treated to remove radionuclides apart from tritium, which can?t be filtered out, can be evaporated, as was the case after Three Mile Island, Ahn said. ?Amounts of tritium would be small, so that radioactivity that would be discharged into the atmosphere would be acceptably small,? he said by e-mail. As with other types of ionizing radiation, human exposure to?tritium?can increase the risk of developing cancer, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. It?s among the least dangerous of radionuclides, usually entering the body in water and is excreted through urine a month or so after ingestion, according to the EPA. Processing the 2.23 million gallons 8,290 tons of radioactive water accumulated at Three Mile Island left one teaspoon of tritium, according to GPU Nuclear Corp., a company created to deal with the cleanup of the station. Tainted water at the U.S. plant was boiled twice in a device similar to a large kettle before being released via a 100-foot stack into the atmosphere. The evaporation process began 12 years after the accident and lasted more than two years. Before that the contaminated water was used as part of the plant?s decommissioning. The maximum?radiation exposure?that a member of the public may have received from the evaporation was the equivalent of a day?s background radiation, GPU Nuclear said in?a report?on a website dedicated to the accident. The method of evaporation was picked over releasing the water in a nearby river because of political objections, said Lake Barrett, who directed cleanup operations at the site for the U.S. nuclear regulator for four years after the accident. ?We brought that water down to basically drinking-water standards and we could have released it into the Susquehanna River under all the rules,? Barrett, now an independent nuclear energy consultant based in Florida, said. ?However, we had a physiological social problem, which is that people drank the water downstream of Three Mile Island.? Still, discharging low-level contaminated water at the Fukushima station into the sea may need to be used in addition or as an alternative to evaporation, said Ahn. Tepco would need to ensure the level of radiation in the water is below international safety norms or it could clash with the 1972 London convention that restricts dumping of waste materials in the world?s seas and oceans. ?It is essential that water treatment systems be employed at the site with the result that no more radioactivity leaves except via controlled and monitored pathways,? said Lochbaum of the Union of Concerned Scientists. That?s where Tepco?s efforts to engage the international community may be coming into play, said?Peter Burns, a radiation physicist based in?Melbourne?who represented?Australia?on the?United Nations? committee on the effects of atomic radiation. The company probably has a plan already but needs an outsider?s stamp of approval to win support for it, he said. ?Tepco realize that they not only have to do the right thing, but they have to be seen to do the right thing,? Burns said. ?If people don?t accept what they do, you?ll have a never-ending problem.? Asian stocks?dropped for a second day, credit risk climbed and oil rose on concern the U.S. will take military action against Syria.?India?s rupee sank to a record and government bonds in?Australia?advanced. ?The rupee weakened past 68 per dollar and Australia?s currency slid against all its 16 major peers. The yield on Australian 10-year bonds declinedTension in Syria has worsened a rout that?s seen investors pull billions of dollars from emerging markets on speculation theFederal Reserve? will begin tapering stimulus as the ?U.S. economy? recovers. The rupee is leading losses in Asian currencies and stocks in Thailand have entered a ?bear market. Data today may show pending sales of previously owned U.S. homes stagnated. ?Syria?s taking attention away from what?s been generally better news out of the U.S. in terms of stronger growth,? Sean Fenton, a Sydney-based?fund manager?who helps oversee about $1 billion at Tribeca Investment Partners, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. ?It?s probably even more concerning what?s happening within Asia in terms of capital flight. The sugar hit of credit expansion and capital inflows has been taken away with those tapering views.? About eight stocks fell for every one that rose on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, led by losses in Japanese shares as the Topix sank 2.4 percent, set for its lowest close since June 27. All 10 industry groups declined on the MSCI?s Asian gauge, which is down 2.7 percent in August. Shares in the?Philippines?paced declines in emerging markets, tumbling 5.3 percent to a nine-month low. The MSCI?Emerging Markets?Index decreased 0.9 percent as stocks in South Korea, Malaysia and Indonesia dropped. Thai stocks retreated for a 10th day after the SET index yesterday slumped more than 20 percent from this year?s high. Global funds have withdrawn about $44 billion from emerging-market stock and bond funds since the end of May through last week, according to data provider EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm that tracks fund flows. Philippine, Thai and Indonesian markets led a four-year rally in global stocks through May as corporate profits reached record highs on rising domestic demand and Fed stimulus spurred international investors to seek riskier assets. The U.S. central bank is expected to cut bond purchases next month, according to 65 percent of economists in a Bloomberg survey from Aug. 9-13. U.S. President?Barack Obama?is working with allies including the U.K. and?France?to reach agreement on limited action against Syria after concluding the regime used chemical weapons against civilians, fanning concern unrest may disrupt Middle East oil supplies. West Texas Intermediate rose to $111.93 a barrel, sending the S&P GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials up 1.7 percent. Oil in New York surged 2.9 percent yesterday, the most since May 2, before closing at the highest level since Feb. 2012. Brent in?London?jumped 2.4 percent to $117.08 a barrel, extending yesterday?s 3.3 percent gain. Gasoline futures and natural gas contracts also advanced. The U.S., France and the U.K. are laying the legal groundwork to justify action against Syria, moving forces into place and gathering allies in the region. U.K. Prime Minister?David Cameronsaid in London that while no decision has been made on a course of action, it would be legal and proportionate. Australia?s currency slid 0.8 percent to 89.17 U.S. cents, the lowest since Aug. 6. New Zealand?s dollar reached 77.48 U.S. cents, the weakest since Aug. 5, before buying 77.74 cents, down 0.3 percent from yesterday?s close. The rupee slumped to an all-time low of 68.025 against the greenback, extending its decline this year to 19.2 percent, the biggest among Asian currencies, compared with a 1.8 percent advance for China?s?yuan. The rupee is set for its worst annual loss since 1991. India will set up a?task force?to identify partner countries for currency-swap agreements in its bid to stem the rupee?s slump and preserve foreign reserves, Commerce Minister?Anand Sharma?said yesterday in New Delhi. The Philippine peso dropped 0.5 percent to 44.790 per dollar, after touching 44.653, the lowest since January 2011, amid concern protests over discretionary government budgets will slow state spending and weigh on economic growth. Thailand?s baht weakened 0.4 percent to 32.29 per dollar on concern Southeast Asia?s second-largest economy will struggle to emerge from a recession this quarter. Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said today the central bank won?t hesitate to contain excessive moves in the market if necessary. The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan, a measure of the cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds against non-payment, jumped 8 basis points to 175 basis points as of 8:13 a.m. in?Hong Kong, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices show. The gauge, which advanced 9.7 basis points yesterday, is set for its highest close since June 24, according to data provider CMA. Japan?s 10-year yield slid 2 basis points to 0.72 percent, the lowest since Aug. 21. Australia?s 10-year yield dropped 5 basis points to 3.89 percent? LAUNCESTON,?Australia, ? Reuters - Liquefied?natural gas? LNG prices in Asia tend to rise ahead of the northern winter, but this year it's possible that the gains will be maintained for longer into the new year. There appears to be a looming mismatch between LNG demand and supply, with more import terminals coming on line across the region than global export supply can keep pace with. While many of the new terminals already have long-term supply agreements in place, there is still likely to be pressure for spot cargoes, especially from?China. Spot Asian LNG prices dropped to $15.25 per million British thermal units mmBtu last week, and while they have gained since the mid-year low of $14.13 in May, they are still below the $19.67 per mmBtu peak, reached in early February. As is customary in many?commodity?markets?in Asia,?China?is likely to be the swing factor in what happens to LNG demand. Chinese imports of the super-chilled fuel were 9.679 million tonnes in the first seven months of the year, a gain of 21 percent over the same period in 2012. While this is an impressive gain and puts?China?on track to meet the 16.5 million tonnes for 2013 imports forecast by top oil and gas producer China National Petroleum Corp, it is still well short of what the country is capable of buying. Total import capacity is currently about 21.9 million tonnes and is slated to rise by another 9.7 million tonnes by the end of the year, with three terminals being commissioned. Another 5.2 million tonnes may come online in 2014, which would take Chinese import capacity to just under 37 million tonnes, an increase of 68 percent on the current capacity. However, it's unlikely that all of this capacity will be utilised as China's domestic prices are low enough to render new supplies of LNG uncompetitive, and there are limits as to how much loss the state-owned oil giants are willing to shoulder in order to boost?natural gas?availability. Despite a 15 percent rise in domestic prices in July, China's gas is around $8.85 per mmBtu, meaning current spot prices are at a premium of about 72 percent. However, while it's unlikely all the capacity will be used, it's equally likely that some will, and this will boost Chinese demand for spot LNG cargoes. This will come at a time when other LNG import terminals are coming online in Asia, including new facilities in Singapore, Malaysia and?South Korea. Again, some of this capacity is covered by long-term contracts, but it's worth bearing in mind that these contracts will currently be met from existing supplies, thus diverting cargoes that may have been available for the spot market. It's also possible that Japan's LNG imports will continue to grow, especially since it seems to be taking longer to get any significant nuclear power capacity running in the wake of the Fukushima meltdown in March 2011. Japan's only two operating nuclear plants are scheduled to be idled for maintenance by September, and the country may be without atomic power until July next year, according to industry officials. This may boost LNG imports by 1.7 percent to fresh record highs of 88.3 million tonnes for the financial year to March 2014, anther factor that may tighten Asian LNG markets. On the downside for LNG demand is the situation in India, where a falling rupee has made LNG more expensive. LNG is too expensive in India to be used by power generators and is only competitive in industries where it competes with oil-based products like naphtha, such as fertilizer making. While the depreciation on the rupee also boosts the price of oil products, if LNG prices do rise for the northern winter, it's likely that they will rise more relative to crude oil, thereby making the imported gas less competitive. Nonetheless, there is still significant new LNG import capacity becoming available in Asia and little immediate boost to supplies. New LNG export capacity has come online in Angola and Algeria this year, and prices have recently softened after a blockade of Nigerian facilities was lifted. However, the next huge boost to supply is coming from Australia, which is expected to overtake Qatar as the world's top exporter of the fuel within the next few years. But the first of the seven projects currently under construction, the 15.6 million tonne a year Chevron-operated Gorgon project is likely to start by the end of 2014 at the earliest. The other projects then follow, with the last due to be completed by 2017, although whether these timelines can be maintained is uncertain given Australia's recent history of delays and cost blowouts. What does seem clear is that much of the rise in Asia's import terminal capacity is likely to be operational before the gains in supply come onstream. Even if only some of the new import capacity is utilised, it's likely to tighten the LNG market, and lift prices, until the new export plants are commissioned. ONGC ONGC ?Videsh Ltd., a unit of?India?s biggest energy explorer, will probably raise debt overseas to fund its entire $2.64 billion purchase of a 10 percent stake in a Mozambique?gas field?from?Anadarko Petroleum Corp. APC Funding the acquisition with overseas debt will help ONGC skirt the effect of a sinking rupee, which has dropped 14.17 percent this year, the worst decline among its Asian peers. The acquisition, subject to approvals in Mozambique and India, will add to Oil & Natural Gas Corp.?s interest in Rovuma Area 1, after it joined with?Oil India Ltd. OINL ?in June to buy a 10 percent stake for $2.5 billion fromVideocon Industries Ltd. VCLF ?State-run Bharat Petroleum Corp. owns 10 percent stake in the field, taking Indian ownership to 30 percent, the biggest group. ?The valuation is fair and there?s synergy as the Indian group will control a large part of the field and can bring some of the gas back home,? said Gagan Dixit, a Mumbai-based analyst with Quant Broking Pvt., who has a buy rating on ONGC. ?India could become Mozambique?s biggest market for its gas.? ONGC?fell?3.1 percent to 268.05 rupees in Mumbai today, the biggest decline in a week. The shares are little changed this year, compared with a 4.5 percent drop in the benchmark?S&P BSE Sensex. SENSEX ?Anadarko rose 0.6 percent to $89.80 in?New York?on Aug. 23, taking its gain for the year to 21 percent. The field will supply gas to a liquefaction plant that ?is strategically located to supply LNG to India at a competitive price,? ONGC said today in?statement. The New Delhi-based company and its units plan to spend 11 trillion rupees $171 billion by 2030 to add reserves in India and overseas and reverse a drop in output from aging fields at home. ?The acquisition is strategic because it give us access to a lot of LNG which can be brought to India,? Sarraf said. ?It?s a big step toward India?s energy security.? The Rovuma Area 1 has the potential to become one of the world?s largest LNG projects, ONGC said in the statement. At a planned capacity of 20 million tons annually, the Mozambique project could be the world?s largest LNG export site after Ras Laffan in?Qatar, where?Exxon Mobil Corp. XOM ?is a partner. Anadarko, which will remain the operator of Area 1 with a 26.5 percent stake, said the deal ?values our pre-transaction interest at more than $9.6 billion,? according to a separate statement from The Woodlands, Texas, based company. The company will use cash from the sale to boost development at its U.S. onshore projects as well as the?Gulf of Mexico, according to the statement. The East African country has become a prominent destination for energy investment, especially by Asian companies, as it looks to develop the largest natural-gas discovery in a decade. The scale of the reserves means significant spending by the blocks? owners will be needed to construct export infrastructure. Building the necessary rigs, pipelines and export terminals could require $50 billion in investment, Mozambique?s mining minister said last year. The east African country, with a per capita gross domestic product lower than that of Rwanda, has limited experience managing large-scale resource projects and is still building key ports and railway links.?Rio Tinto Group RIO ?earlier this year wrote down 70 percent of its investment in Mozambique?s coal sector because of insufficient transport capacity and a drop in coal prices. The government also plans to relax its mineral export quotas, which determines the proportion of resources that are not quarantined for domestic consumption. ?Mining companies don?t have a problem with the quota,? said Agus, adding that the industry had increased output volumes despite the quota system. Indonesia Mining Association executive chairman Tony Wenas agreed, citing the growth in the nation?s nickel exports, which stood at 40 million tons for the first half of this year, up from 26 million tons in the same period in 2012. Tony said the mining industry welcomed any government commitment to provide incentives, but added that the announcement lacked detail. ?If they want to provide incentives, then they need to detail what?s involved, the parameters of the tax holiday, the amount of the allowance and so on,? he said. He said the mining industry could help the government narrow the trade deficit and bolster state currency reserves, since mining companies do business with foreign currencies. ?More mining activities mean increased exports, which, in turn, will improve Indonesia?s foreign exchange reserves,? Tony said. But Apemindo?s Agus said the decision to relax export quotas would not directly result in an increase in output volume. ?If miners plan to ramp up production, then they have to place more orders for heavy equipment and tools, which usually take two or three months [to arrive at] mining sites,? he said. ?There are only a few months left in 2013. I wouldn?t increase production activities just for the sake of increasing export volumes, especially not with just a few months remaining in the calendar year,? Agus said. He noted that a rise in exports would put pressure on prices, including in the domestic economy, where inflation has spiked in recent months. Indonesia is the world?s top exporter of nickel ore and refined tin and a significant exporter of bauxite and iron ore. The government?s quota and tax rules are intended to encourage value-adding business activities in the mining sector.