It's been over two years now and the TEMCO Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant was found steaming Thursday. We think it's possible that rain made its way through the reactor building and having fallen on the primary containment vessel, which is hot, evaporated creating steam, said Tepco spokeswoman Maymi Yoshida, adding it was still investigating the matter. The radiation levels have not changed around plant, containment of the reactor has been encased with steel and 4 to 8 inches of concrete to hold off a leaking reactor. About a week ago a huge spike in radioactive cesium was detected in groundwater 25 meters from the sea.? TEMCO has been fighting the crippled reactor at building No3 the last two years in cooling the reactor with water at a rate of a Olympic size pool every week. The company says it is running out of room to store the contaminated water and has asked to spill the contaminated water around the plant and even into the Pacific ocean. ?The locals do not approve of the plan and it's been found that Blue Fin Tuna that migrate from Japan to the west coast of California every year, have traces of radiation levels. On May 24, 2011, TEPCO reported that all three reactors melted down. The Chernobyl disaster of 1986 is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history, and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 . The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles. The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been disputed, and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for. To this day the town of ?Pripyat is a ghost town. Update: 7/23/13 The head of Japan's new Nuclear Regulation Authority, created since the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami wrecked Fukushima, said this month he believed contamination of the sea had been continuing since the accident. We would like to offer our deep apology for causing grave worries for many people, especially for people in Fukushima, Masayuki Ono, Tepco's general manager, told a news conference in comments broadast on public NHK television. In this film Channel 4's Alex Thomson takes you through the town near the crippled Fukushima plant and like something out of the Twilight Zone is a town frozen in time. ?Very likely some of Fukushima's melted cores have moved into the earth! ? It's beyond containment right now Paul Gunter director of the reactor oversight project at Beyond Nuclear: Indications are right now that the reactor structures themselves have been breached. It's very likely that some of the radioactive material ?the melted cores have moved into the earth. ?So it's beyond containment right now. ?That's the tragedy that we see unfolding as Fukushima's radioactive water crisis is only the beginning. Oct 17, 2013 Paul Gunter, Beyond Nuclear, joins Thom Hartmann. There are new concerns coming out of Japan - as the stricken Number 4 reactor at the Daichii nuclear power plant is on the verge of collapsing. How is TEPCO responding to this newest threat - and can they stop a complete nuclear disaster?? Aug 9, 2013 It's been two years since an earthquake and tsunami took down a nuclear power plant in Fukushima, Japan, but have any new regulations been installed to prevent future disasters? Paul Gunter, the director of the Beyond Nuclear.? Feb 24, 2014 Abby Martin takes a look at the state of the Fukushima nuclear power plant three years after the massive earth quake and subsequent tsunami that led to the meltdown; discussing the long term impacts of continued radiation leaks with Kevin Kamps, radioactive waste watchdog of BeyondNuclear.org, and Tim Judson, executive director at the Nuclear Information and Resource Center.? This is a 10 year timelapse of the radiation from Fukushima, Japan, contaminating the Pacific Ocean A sequence of global ocean circulation models, with horizontal mesh sizes of 0.5?, 0.25? and 0.1?, are used to estimate the long-term dispersion by ocean currents and mesoscale eddies of a slowly decaying tracer half-life of 30 years, comparable to that of 137Cs from the local waters off the Fukushima Dai-ichi Nuclear Power Plants. The tracer was continuously injected into the coastal waters over some weeks; contaminated water is still leaking into the Pacific to this day its subsequent spreading and dilution in the Pacific Ocean was then simulated for 10 years. In the top left corner of the vid is a day counter, 1095 day's = 3 years, happy?anniversary! ?Hey Pa, what's this I just caught? ?Son I have no idea! Fukushima radiation killing our children, govt hides truth - former mayor The former mayor produced a map of Fukushima Prefecture that showed that air contamination decreased a little, but soil contamination remains the same. Sept. 12, 2014 The Fukushima nuclear accident is an event far from a resolution and constitutes a present and grave threat to all life on earth with no exceptions. This expedition was prompted by the discovery that out of 5500 species only of what the Team chose, let's look at that species list along a 200 km coast line of Canada we only discovered 12 species left. We seen only 4 species of algae out of 600 we never found any of the 70 species of sea anemones we seen only one species of sea star out of 64 known local species. We never seen a single bull kelp forest but did see one thin strand of bull kelp. We never got a single insect attack or bite on 16 beaches at low tides nor did we see any insects on our windows or grill after 160 km of highways full of trees. Important word to know today: Homeostasis, also spelled homoeostasis is the property of a system in which variables are regulated so that internal conditions remain stable and relatively constant. ?Examples of homeostasis include the regulation of temperature and the balance between acidity and alkalinity pH . ?It is a process that maintains the stability of the human body's internal environment in response to changes in external conditions. All living organisms depend on maintaining a complex set of interacting metabolic chemical reactions. From the simplest unicellular organisms to the most complex plants and animals, internal processes operate to keep the conditions within tight limits to allow these reactions to proceed. ?Homeostatic processes act at the level of the cell, the tissue, and the organ, as well as for the organism as a whole. This?didn't?take long and at this point in our history the only thing that matters today is what?this poor Seal above is experiencing in her environment. ?Not government, corporations, military fronts, wealth could change her home, our home. ?But maybe if all combined we could Try? Right? ?All force in the power of mankind needs to converge on Fukushima or we're toast.?