San Diego Gas & Electric has joined the fray over who is to blame for the breakdown of the San Onofre nuclear plant, filing suit this week against steam generator manufacturer Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and its U.S. affiliates. The nuclear division of the Japanese conglomerate concealed its inability to design and fabricate steam generators of the size and complexity required at San Onofre, according the lawsuit filed Thursday in state Superior Court in San Diego by SDG&E. The investor-owned utility owns a 20 percent stake in San Onofre, leaving its shareholders and customers across San Diego and southern Orange counties on the hook for losses associated with the shutdown. At the same time, majority owner and plant operator Southern California Edison has put Mitsubishi on notice that it will seek to recover potentially billions of dollars though negotiations that are likely to end in binding arbitration. Mitsubishi says it is only responsible for the $137 million costs of the equipment it delivered to San Onofre. Edison and SDG&E assert that the terms of the contract no longer hold because of Mitsubishi's actions. Mitsubishi said in a statement Friday that it ?will aggressively defend itself by accurately representing the facts involved, holding Edison and SDG&E to the terms and conditions in their contract. Aging generators at the San Onofre plant were replaced starting in 2009 with the goal of adding decades of life to the two nuclear reactors. A small radiation leak shut down the plant in January 2012 and led to the discovery of unprecedented wear on generator tubes carrying radioactive water. Edison announced in June that it would retire and dismantle San Onofre, citing mounting expenses and uncertainty that safety regulators would accept a plan to restart one of the reactors at partial power. The SDG&E lawsuit contends that Mitsubishi concealed the extent of the design's potential for flaws, including the limitations of computer codes that underestimated steam flows within the generators. Safety regulators say the botched calculations and ineffective supports allowed destructive vibrations to ensue among generator tubes. Mitsubishi actively concealed the dangerous risks inherent in evolving a new steam generator beyond that which Mitsubishi had available to it, the SDG&E lawsuit states. The lawsuit seeks an award of exemplary damages against Mitsubishi, as well as legal costs. But no dollar amount was specified in the lawsuit. The lawsuit draws on concerns about design flaws raised by an Edison executive in 2004, during the first months of the project, as proof that Mitsubishi was aware of the potential for tube wear. The documents were made public by Sen. Barbara Boxer out of concern that Edison may have misled nuclear safety officials about the extent of design changes in order to avoid a more rigorous regulatory review. Mitsubishi has asserted that it could not have predicted the unprecedented type of tube vibrations that occurred at San Onofre, although research papers warned of the potential problem in 2005 and 2006. The San Onofre generators are the largest ever produced by Mitsubishi. Mitsubishi has paid out $45 million under the generator warranty agreement.