Shiveluch volcano. July 29, 2013 - EUROPE - Here are several of the latest incidents of mass fish die-offs across the Europe: Hundreds, even thousands of dead fish floating in the river Dender in Ath, height lock Bilh?e. Involved, the heat of recent weeks. The oxygen in the water becomes increasingly scarce. Fish do have enough to survive. When you come up to the lock Bilh?e is first smell that takes nose reeks of not fresh fish. Then hundreds of white spots floating on the water surface can be seen. Jean, a septuagenarian Lessines, just go back to bike along the Dender. He saw a lot of dead fish. He is not happy. It should not happen. Fishermen pay for their fish. Yonder, further downstream, there are much more, ten times more. For a few days the fish are dead, but they only begin to rise to the surface. This carnage is due to the scorching weather. Oxygen is already dissolved in water more difficult because of the heat, said Baudouin Vervaeke, the fire chief of Ath. And green microalgae are formed on the surface of the river. To grow, they consume oxygen at the expense of fish. The only way to limit the damage is to bring more oxygen through a machine. Waterways have placed a machine in the river, an aerator, which will circulate the water in a violent manner. The air is incorporated into the water, and also oxygen. For its part, the Civil Protection will recover all the dead fish to destroy them. - RTBF. [Translated] Large quantities of dead fish have been found in a river outside M?rarp. The cause of fish death is not clear, but Christopher Strand who live nearby think there is a discharge that has choked the fish. - The water was milky white in the morning, he says. It is mainly brown trout that are now floating lifeless in the river, which runs through the village Lydestad outside M?rarp in Helsingborg municipality. During the morning went Christofer Beach down to the river to inspect the fish death. - There is certainly more than a thousand dead trout. Some weigh up to one kilogram, he said. Police on the way Rescue Service were called to the scene but has since turned the case over to the police, who will visit the place during the day. - A police patrol is coming. They will talk to people, take water and shoot, says Marcus Andersson, assistant internal command at Helsingborg police. What happens to the fish is unclear. - There is nothing that we will pick it up anyway. The reason unclear It is also settled law what has caused fish death. But Christopher Strand's theory is that in the case of a spill. - There is a factory about a kilometer upstream. Christopher Beach think it's about a hundred percent fish mortality in the affected leg and feel that something must happen to prevent fish die in a similar way again. - It was a release for seven, eight years ago, when there was no penalty. We want something going now. The river drains into the nearby Vege?. Environment in Helsingborg is engaged in the matter. - Expressen. [Translated] Myriad of dead fish can be seen in the waters Bahlui the past two days. The cause of death appears bizarre one at least as long as it was not a hot weather. So far no one knows what causes that led to this situation, but authorities announced that they would be taken to remedy the problem. Yesterday No - Thursday , around noon, a team went to the spot and found that indeed there were dead fish in the river Bahlui. So they collected samples were brought to the laboratory for water quality under the Water Basin Administration Prut-Barlad. Were taken of the fish recovery and install a floating dam upstream of the confluence with Ciric Bahlui, to be held all the fish and that they do not reach and downstream, said spokesman Water Basin Administration Prut-Barlad, Dan Weed. At the same time, they also took other measures to prevent the occurrence of such incidents in the future. It was also maneuvered stavilelor opening from accumulating Ciric 3, or Venice, to achieve the Bahlui dilution. In other words, the amount of water was increased Ciric and increased flow to a similar situation does not arise in the downstream. From initial estimates, it appears that it was an amount of about 100 pounds of fish, said Dan Weed. - Ziaruldeiasi. [Translated] On Friday, the environmental prosecutor's office of Moscow began checking on the information about the mass death of fish in the Moscow River. Recall that the mass death of fish was noted in the south-east of the capital - in Bataysk passage in Marino . The exact cause of fish death is still unknown. The experts are inclined to short-term chemical or toxic water pollution. It is unknown the number of dead fish, but for such a massive loss of Moscow - the fish was observed on the segment almost a kilometer - a rare case. Last similar incident occurred exactly two years ago in the river at Jauze ELEKTROZAVODSKAYA bridge. The correspondent of BM visited the place of death of fish. Marino. Along the Moscow River for a morning jog lovers healthy lifestyle. In the park near the river are seen families with children, slowly strolling in the shade of the trees. It is quite usual morning for residents of the city. But if you look closely, you will notice that people are not suited to the water and along the shore of the river dotted with signs No Swimming . Bitter smell of rotten draws the invisible frontier: you approach closer to the water, and there will be nothing to breathe. And lately, along the river for many kilometers have seen dead fish that did not survive the pollution. Faina Trifonov, a local resident, I am sure that the cause of contamination of the river - the result of our relationship to the environment, The water is contaminated, because each body of water should always be cleaned and not cleaned our one hundred years. Near still Refinery Kapotnya. Every Saturday and Sunday, they spew black clouds into the air, and during the weekdays they do not, if someone looks after them. Near the river goes Oleg Makarov with a large garbage bag. Oleg task - to maintain the cleanliness of the park and along its territory but is hard to believe that one hand can clean the river. Maybe it's in the sewers, which flow rivers fall into our area, or because of the abundance of machines - suggests Oleg. - In any case, swim here no one wants. Silence. Even barely heard the noise of cars to park. In the water rhythmically swaying discarded bottles of water in the green paint is difficult to distinguish the same color lilies and algae. So quiet only happens when someone is ill or died. This is what happens to people, but why it can not be with nature? - VM Daily. Theories for the deaths include thunderstorms and a deadly form of algae, after environment officials found oxygen levels in the lake at Pittville Park, Cheltenham, were unusually low. It thought that thunderstorms in the early hours of Tuesday morning could have stirred up silt, making the lake thick with muck. While it is not thought that the water had been deliberately tampered with, a bloom of blue green algae could also have had a dramatic impact on water oxygen levels. Dog walkers have been warned to keep their pets out of the toxic water while experts carry out tests into why the fish ? mainly young roach with a handful of pike ? were killed. Janice Peacey, a community ranger, said: We know that oxygen levels are low but at this stage we don't know more than that. We are monitoring the situation closely and await advice from the Environment Agency about any action that we need to take. In the meantime, I strongly urge people to remain cautious and to avoid coming into contact with the water in case it contains anything toxic. Please also remember to keep dogs on leads so that they are not tempted to jump in for a swim. The majority of the dead fish are thought to be roach but a handful of large pike are known to have perished too. Results of the Environment Agency?s tests are expected in the next few days. A spokeswoman added: We're currently monitoring oxygen levels in the water, and initial samples have shown low readings. ?The low oxygen levels could be due to a number of factors linked to environmental conditions such as thunderstorms causing pressure changes, rainwater washing pollution off roads, or algal growth. Pittville Park opened in 1825 and is the largest ornamental park in Cheltenham. The park has grade two listing under the English Heritage register of historic parks and gardens, with the pump room being a grade one historic building. - Telegraph. L` lagoon ecosystem is under stress for global reasons and factors locali.Abbiamo need maximum clarity - that we have invoked from the first moment - about the causes and consequences of the crisis which these days has resulted in, among other `, the die-off of a `large quantity of fish in the lagoon. This was underlined by Gianfranco Bettin, Deputy Mayor of the City of Venice in relation to fish kills affecting the Venetian lagoon area. Only yesterday were collected 50 tons of dead fish due to the proliferation of algae due to the heat. That's why we look with great interest all` open investigation by prosecutors in Venice - continues Bettin - which, we are sure, will help to shed light on vicenda.C `is, in any case, an overall look of concern, and is the stress state that the `entire ecosystem manifested by time, due to global factors such as climate change in progress and of purely local factors the modifications of the morphology, the changes of the currents, the environmental quality of certain areas, the effects of these systemic changes . For the deputy particular phenomena, such as heat waves or the persistence of high temperatures, can be aggravating circumstances, just as other circumstances, such as the flush in the lagoon, due to continuous rains in recent months, nutrient that may have produced an abnormal algal bloom and, therefore, with the heat and rot, have accentuated the `anoxia and the plague deipesci.Naturalmente, any episodes of pollution guilty must be severely prosecuted, he concluded. - Meteo Web. [Translated] Environment experts fear the heatwave has taken its toll after hundreds of fish have died at a Birmingham park.? The Environment Agency and animal welfare officers from Birmingham City Council were called to Edgbaston?s Cannon Hill Park after distraught members of the public spotted the dead fish floating on the surface of its lake.? A spokesman for the council said the hot weather could have sparked the incident, which was caused by oxygen levels in the water dropping ?considerably?.? He said it was too early to establish how many fish had died, but the incident involved ?large amounts? of roach and bream.? ?We know from tests that the oxygen levels in the lake had dropped considerably, so the Environment Agency is re-circulating water and oxygenating the lake in an effort to stabilize oxygen levels,? he added. ?Low oxygen levels could be due to a number of factors linked to environmental conditions, such as decomposing algae or sediment stirred up by recent storms.? ?The surviving fish now have areas which are oxygenated and we will continue to work with the Environment Agency to make sure that oxygen levels stay at the required level.?? The park is a popular venue for families enjoying the sunshine during the school summer holidays and the lake is a regular haunt for anglers during the fishing season.? Shocked visitors at the park yesterday took to social networking website Twitter after seeing the dead fish.? @jumpylegs wrote: ?Lovely run this morning but very sad to see so many dead fish in Cannon Hill park lake... even the heron looked shocked.? Environment experts fear the heatwave has taken its toll after hundreds of fish have died at a Birmingham park.? The Environment Agency and animal welfare officers from Birmingham City Council were called to Edgbaston?s Cannon Hill Park after distraught members of the public spotted the dead fish floating on the surface of its lake.? A spokesman for the council said the hot weather could have sparked the incident, which was caused by oxygen levels in the water dropping ?considerably?.? He said it was too early to establish how many fish had died, but the incident involved ?large amounts? of roach and bream.? ?We know from tests that the oxygen levels in the lake had dropped considerably, so the Environment Agency is re-circulating water and oxygenating the lake in an effort to stabilize oxygen levels,? he added. ?Low oxygen levels could be due to a number of factors linked to environmental conditions, such as decomposing algae or sediment stirred up by recent storms.? ?The surviving fish now have areas which are oxygenated and we will continue to work with the Environment Agency to make sure that oxygen levels stay at the required level.?? The park is a popular venue for families enjoying the sunshine during the school summer holidays and the lake is a regular haunt for anglers during the fishing season.? Shocked visitors at the park yesterday took to social networking website Twitter after seeing the dead fish.? @jumpylegs wrote: ?Lovely run this morning but very sad to see so many dead fish in Cannon Hill park lake... even the heron looked shocked.? ?Thanks to @BhamCityCouncil for sealing off the lake to clear the dead fish.?? A spokeswoman for the Environment Agency added: ?We are supporting the council in any way we can.? ?At this stage it?s too early to know whether the low oxygen levels were caused by the heat, but the hot weather has been creating problems elsewhere.?? She urged anglers and other watercourse users to help protect fish stocks this summer.? ?Increased temperatures and low rainfall can combine to make challenging conditions for migratory fish,? she added. ?Oxygen levels in the water can become dangerously low, placing the fish at risk, and salmon have been dying in the Tyne estuary over the past week as a result of these conditions.? ?Anglers and other people enjoying the riverside environment are therefore being asked to promptly report any signs of diseased or dead fish to us.?? Meanwhile, the council also reminded residents not to play in water in public places in Birmingham.? The spokesman added: ?We would reiterate advice about the dangers of swimming in ponds and lakes across the city.? ?It may seem like a good idea when the sun is shining but water that looks inviting on the surface may have hidden dangers underneath and it will be much colder than you think.? - Birmingham Mail. A virus present in Carlingford Lough, and flourishing due to the recent warm weather, has killed off stocks of oysters to the concern of those working in the industry. DARD has confirmed that positive test results have been returned for the Ostreid Herpes Virus.? The virus, which officials say originated in France, has been widely detected in Lough Foyle, Carlingford Lough, Killough Bay and Strangford Lough.? Research to date has not identified any method to combat the mortalities, which appear to be linked to rising water temperatures, a DARD spokesperson said.? The virus appears to lie latent until water temperatures reach 15-16C, at which stage the oysters begin to die very quickly. Water temperatures have risen to 20C in recent days, which has reduced oxygen levels.? South Down SDLP MLA Se?n Rogers says it is a devastating situation for oyster farmers.? One farmer has lost 80% of his stock in just two days, which is essentially three years of hard work - in often very difficult conditions - gone, he said.? These farmers need assistance and they need it fast in order to begin re-building their livelihoods. I have made urgent representations to the Minister in support of these farmers. ? DARD has confirmed that there are no measures available for compensation or restocking, either through DARD or under European funding.? The department says that, through the European Fisheries Fund, it has assisted the taking forward of a project which aims to investigate possible farming techniques to limit the spread of the virus. WATCH: Oysters decimated by warm weather. The Pacific oyster industry produced 136.68 tonnes in 2011 and was valued at around ?545,600.? The shellfish industry as a whole was estimated to value approximately ?6.3m.? Invertebrate viruses are not known to affect humans and the Food Standards Agency is not aware of any reports of human illness associated with this virus.? DARD is committed to maintaining our high fish health status and operates comprehensive disease control measures, a spokesperson added. - U TV. Fishermen are in shock after finding thousands of dead fish in a popular lake.The fish were found on Monday morning at one of the Bulwell Hall Park Lakes, off Sandhurst Road, Bulwell.? The cause of the problem is thought to have been a lack of oxygen in the water due to the hot weather.Fisherman Grant Mackenzie, 48, of Bulwell Hall Estate said: It was about 6.30am on Monday morning when I found them. It looked like Armageddon in fishing terms. In the past I have seen the odd fish floating in the water but nothing like this. It is really shocking that this has happened but I do not think anyone is to blame. The heat has caused the oxygen levels to drop in the lake which has killed the fish. In hindsight the council should have come and oxygenated the lake before it got too hot. Among the dead fish were pike, hake, bream and carp.Shop fitter Lee Corner, 48, of Hazel Street, Bulwell, added: I think that this was avoidable because there were fish in there gasping a few days before and nothing was done. There must be 8000 fish dead and that is terrible. I have been coming to the lake since I was 12-years-old and I am shocked this has happened. Michael Wright has been fishing at the lake for 20 years and has never seen anything like it before.The resident of Norwich Gardens, Bulwell, added: I could not believe my eyes when I realised what was floating in the water. At first I thought that it was pollen but then I realised they were fish. Some people have been trying to clear the lake of the fish with nets.Fisherman Jamie Moore, 36, of Squires Avenue, Bullwell, said: I have been trying to clean up the mess with my son. The smell is already getting bad and if they are left in the lake to rot they will infect it. The council should have done something to clear the area as soon as the fish were found. If they are just left they will spread disease. Son Carter Moore, 10, of Squires Avenue, Bullwell, added: I was really shocked when I saw them all floating there. I have been helping to try and get the fish out the water but I don't think we will be fishing here again for a while. There are two main fishing lakes in the area and the Environment Agency has now oxygenated both.A spokeswoman from the Environment Agency said: We were called to the site to investigate, help and give advice. There are two ponds, upper and lower and we started oxygenating both ponds at midday on Monday, July 22. The lower pond reached the required oxygen levels by 2pm and we continued to aerate the upper pond until 5pm when it reached the required level. A Nottingham City Council spokesman said:?We have spoken to the Environment Agency about this matter and a combination of the number of fish and the weather led to a lack of oxygen in the lake. We have now reoxygenated the lake and we are talking to the Environment Agency about the best way to dispose of the fish that have died.? - This Is Nottingham. A large amount of fish found dead in the lower Lea river and surrounding waterways were starved of oxygen.? The fish were spotted at various locations along the river, including Springfield Marina and Lea Bridge Weir pool in Walthamstow.? Recent hot weather reduced oxygen levels in the river, the Environment Agency said.? And storms on Monday night, which swept toxins from nearby roads into the river, meant oxygen levels were further depeleted.? Fisheries officers from the agency worked through the night carrying out work to return levels to normal by running water through locks and pumping oxygen into the water at Three Mills Boatyard. ?The agency reported that oxygen levels have risen around 25 per cent in the area, creating a refuge for fish including bream, perch, pike and roach? A spokesman said: We received reports of fish that have died in the Lower Lea river this morning. Our monitoring equipment showed oxygen levels had dropped.? Environment officers are at the scene to monitor peroxide and oxygen levels. - Guardian.