There's no simple answer when it comes to royalty. Formally, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's baby son will be known as His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge. He has two other middle names, as we know, Alexander Louis. But Palace officials say those with HRH prefixes don't formally have a surname. It's not as straightforward as that though. Occasionally, there are legal documents, such as marriage certificates, on which members of the Royal Family are asked to sign with a surname. On these occasions, direct descendants of the Queen and Prince Philip have normally signed using the surname Mountbatten-Windsor. That is the surname that Prince William is thought to have used on the marriage certificate when he and the then Kate Middleton were married in April 2011, though we can?t be sure because for some reason palace officials decided not to publish it. To confuse matters somewhat, the palace did release a copy of the Instrument of Consent, the required consent from his grandmother allowing him to wed. On that his name was listed as Prince William Arthur Philip Louis of Wales. Members of the Royal Family can also sometimes use the name of their house ? Princess Beatrice of York, for example, is sometimes known as Beatrice York. In the same way, in the Armed Forces, both William and his brother Prince Harry have used Wales as a surname. They are Flight Lieutenant William Wales of the RAF and Captain Harry Wales of the Army Air Corps. All members of the Royal Family, apart from the Queen, must use passports when travelling abroad but I have to confess I?m not entirely sure what name they use then. Royal aides were unwilling to help on that score, arguing that is personal, but my guess is they use their titles and ranks without a surname eg HRH The Duke of Cambridge So getting back to the little prince, it seems to boil down to this: he doesn?t officially have a surname but will be George Mountbatten-Windsor if he needs to use a surname on a marriage certificate or other official documents. As things stand, he will be George Cambridge perhaps at school and certainly in the Armed Forces, although if Prince Charles becomes King, William will become Duke of Cornwall and almost certainly although not automatically or necessarily immediately eventually Prince of Wales. At that point young George is likely to be known as George Wales. So that?s all clear then?