International capitals that had strained relations with Egypt during former President Mohamed Morsi's tumultuous one-year rule have hailed his removal by the Egyptian army following mass demonstrations. UAE Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al-Nahayan said that he had followed developments in Egypt with much consideration and satisfaction, lauding Egypt's army for its timely intervention, AFP reported. Relations between Abu Dhabi and Egypt have been strained since Morsi's victory in Egypt's first-ever free presidential election one year ago. Abu Dhabi has since arrested scores of pro-reform Egyptian voices, meanwhile, accusing them of establishing illegal Muslim Brotherhood cells in the oil-rich emirate. Syrian government television portrayed Morsi's ouster as a great achievement. Egypt's and Syria's leaders had been at loggerheads over the crisis in Syria, with each calling for the other's removal. The New York Times stated that Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad, in an interview with a state-run newspaper, had equated Morsi's overthrow with the end of political Islam. Kuwaiti ruler Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah and Saudi King Abdullah both congratulated Egypt's interim president, according to Reuters. Saudi Arabian King Abdulla, for his part, sent Adli Mansour, Egypt's new interim president, a message of congratulations Wednesday night, Reuters reported. The only Gulf Arab state that had backed the Muslim Brotherhood, Qatar, also hailed the news of Morsi's ouster. Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, Qatar's new emir, sent a congratulatory communiqu? to Egypt's new interim president upon the latter's being sworn into office on Thursday. On the other hand, Tunisia's ruling Islamist party, Ennahda, loosely affiliated with Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood, issued a Thursday statement condemning what it described as a coup against [democratic] legitimacy, Reuters quoted him as saying. We view what the leadership of the army has done as a setback on the path of the Egyptian revolution and an attempt to reinstall the old regime, the statement said. Turkey, which grappled with its own anti-government demonstrations last month, also condemned the Egyptian military's intervention, describing it as undemocratic. The power change in Egypt was not a result of the will of the people. The change was not in compliance with democracy and law, AFP quoted Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdag as saying. Egypt's case is of particular relevance for Turkey, which has a long history of military coups against democratically-elected Islamist governments. Fearing an upsurge of violence in the region, Russia's foreign ministry called on Egyptian political groups to exercise restraint and refrain from using violence in the aftermath of Morsi's army-imposed ouster. Though a staunch supporter of the principle of state sovereignty, China voiced support for the choice of the Egyptian people but called for engaging in national dialogue. AFP reported that Germany viewed the military intervention in Egypt as a major setback to democracy. Ikhwan Online, the website of the Muslim Brotherhood, posted a message conveying Brazil's disapproval of the military coup. Brazil refuses to acknowledge the military takeover in Egypt, the message read.? UK Foreign Secretary William Hague, for his part, said his country would back whoever was in power in Cairo, while branding what happened in Egypt as popular intervention. Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas offered praise for the Egyptian army and sent his congratulations to Mansour. Israel, meanwhile, remains cautious about the changes in Egypt. Although its prime minister has refrained from releasing a statement, many MPs and Likud party members have expressed optimism regarding the resumption of ties ? including economic ones ? with Egypt. Giora Eiland, a retired general and former Israeli national security adviser, when asked if most Israeli officials supported the military coup against Egypt's elected president, said: I think so. Of course, they cannot say so, Reuters reported. Similarly, Iran gave a guarded response, warning against foreign and enemy opportunism during the difficult conditions that follow, Iranian Fars new agency quoted foreign ministry spokesman Abbas Araqchi as saying. Mohamed Morsi?s inaugural year as Egypt?s first post-revolution president featured some key and controversial speeches that went viral on social networking websites, further dividing the country. Some commentators mocked his statements and others staunchly supported them, lauding his decisions. Ahram Online has compiled a list of Morsi?s most prominent quotes from his first year in office: I?ve been given authority, but I?m not the best of you. I will do my best to fulfil the pledges I made. Help me as long as I?m achieving justice, as long as I?m obeying God. Never obey me if I disobey God. Quoting parts of a famous speech delivered by Islamic caliph Abu Bakr Al-Siddiq following the Prophet Mohammad?s death, Morsi attempted to woo admirers and win over sceptics after fending off competition from a Mubarak-era prime minister Ahmed Shafiq to become Egypt?s first freely-elected president in June 2012. To all the Egyptian people: I?m not wearing a bulletproof vest. I?m safe with you, I fear no one but Allah. On his first visit to the iconic Tahrir Square after being elected as president, Morsi took off his jacket - a move described by his supporters as courageous and dismissed by his critics as theatrical. It marked his only visit to-date to the cradle of Egypt?s revolution. The blood of those martyrs will never be shed in vain. I?ve given clear instructions to the army and police to hunt down the criminals and bring them to justice. Facing his first serious test as president, Morsi vowed to capture the militants who killed 16 army soldiers in Rafah last Ramadan, an incident that sent shockwaves across Egypt. The authorities have so far failed to arrest or even identify the perpetrators. The decisions I took today are not targeting any specific persons. I don?t mean to embarrass any establishment; I?m just looking for the interests of the Egyptian people. Morsi justified his bold move to dismiss defence minister Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, who was Egypt?s de facto ruler during the tumultuous transitional period, just days after the Rafah attack. Analysts said the decision paved the way for Morsi to assume full control of the country. The constitutional declaration is necessary for this exceptional period. It?s only a temporary measure. Morsi?s temporary measure to expand his powers and shield his decisions from judicial review via a highly-controversial decree in November 2012 sparked mass protests. The divisive decree turned youth activists strongly against him. Some of those who took part in the Ittihadeya [presidential palace] clashes were paid to incite violence. Eighty people pleaded guilty after being arrested and public prosecution investigations will show who is behind them. Morsi tried to calm anger after clashes between Muslim Brotherhood supporters and opponents, who had staged a sit-in at the presidential palace in December to protest the controversial decree. At least eight people were killed; despite Morsi?s assertions, no one was convicted. I took many hard decisions for the sake of fulfilling the Egyptian people?s aspirations of having a new constitution that will be the benchmark for this country. The constitution makes the president a servant of his people, not a dictator with absolute powers. Morsi lauded the country?s first post-revolution constitution after it was approved in a national referendum in December 2012. Critics urged Egyptians to vote down the document, which was drafted by an assembly dominated by Islamists; they argued it fell short of achieving the goals of the revolution. I always said I'm against any exceptional measures, but I also said I might resort to such measures if I had to. I may even do more for the sake of Egypt - it's my duty. Morsi justified his decision to declare a 30-day state of emergency in Port Said, Suez and Ismailia and impose a curfew in the restive Suez Canal cities in January. The decision followed riots which erupted in the wake of a court verdict sentencing 21 football fans to death for their role in the infamous Port Said stadium tragedy. If the ongoing investigations prove that some politicians had a hand in what happened, we will take the necessary measures against them - whoever they are. This was Morsi?s first tirade against leading opposition figures, whom he declined to call by name, after clashes broke out between Brotherhood members and opponents in front of the Islamist group?s headquarters in the Cairo district of Moqattam in March. Egypt will not be subject to any blackmail attempts over the kidnapped soldiers. Morsi insisted that Egypt will not negotiate with the militants who abducted seven security personnel in Sinai in May. We are a country with a constitution and a legal system. We held a free and fair election, and to talk of an early presidential election is absurd and illegitimate. Morsi hit back at the Tamarod 'Rebel' Campaign, which has collected 22 million signatures ? outnumbering the 13.2 that voted him into power - to demand snap presidential elections. The people of Egypt are patient with anything, unless their borders and lives are put under threat... in which case we will stand united to tear out the threat at the root. Morsi warned Ethiopia earlier this month after it began constructing a giant dam on the Nile, which Egypt fears will affect its share of the water from the world?s longest river. Morsi?s bizarre quotes For example, instead of running the automatic washing machines from 8 to 12 pm, the rush hours for electricity consumption, women should run the washers in the morning. Morsi came up with a creative tactic to help Egyptians overcome the adverse effects of frequent power cuts. Social justice is achieved through our love for each other, solidarity and compassion. The president replied in a simple manner when asked: How would you achieve social justice? We will raise our hands to the sky and pray to God, and we will deal with everyone on the basis of mutual love and respect. I?m sure Egypt?s share of the water will not be reduced, it will increase. Another solution to the Ethiopian dam crisis: praying to God and loving each other. The Ethiopian prime minister assured me that Egypt would not lose a single drop of water because of the dam. Morsi clearly was assured, because he then held successive meetings with Egypt?s politicians to discuss ways to counter the dam's construction. Our dear martyrs, my sincere wishes for success. When asked by Egyptian adventurer Ahmed Haggagovic to write a dedication for martyrs on an Egyptian flag, Morsi wished them success. Perhaps he meant a prosperous life in the hereafter? How many people celebrated the fact that we had produced the first Egyptian iPad tablet? A Morsi statement that will certainly make Apple Inc. CEO Tim Cook's jaw drop. Every country I go to I tell them 'You have the money, so give us some.' They then try to set conditions and pressure us ? Egypt will never be pressured, we are incompressible. Cracking a joke and then switching to a grim face, Morsi?s choice of the word incompressible sums up Egypt?s unyielding stance when seeking loans. I remember a movie. Which one? Planet of the Apes. The old version, not the new one. I still remember, this is the conclusion: When the big monkey, he was head of the supreme court, I think ? in the movie! ? and there was a big scientist working for him, cleaning things, has been chained there. And it was the planet of the apes after the destructive act of a big war, and atomic bombs and whatever in the movie. And the scientist was asking him to do something - this was 30 years ago: 'Don?t forget you are a monkey,' and 'Don?t ask me about this dirty work.' What did the big ape, the monkey say? He said, 'You?re human, you did it [to] yourself.' That?s the conclusion. Can we do something better for ourselves? The president?s vivid description of the 1968 science fiction film left many wondering what he actually meant by such a metaphor. Funnily enough, New York Times blogger Robert Mackey dug into the movie?s script and did not find a big monkey character. It?s not easy to be on the world stage. The world is now much more difficult than it was during your revolution. It?s even more difficult. The world. More complicated, complex, difficult. It?s a spaghetti-like structure. It?s mixed up. Fair enough, Morsi?s choice of spaghetti to describe a mixed-up world was perfect. The wheat does not need a warehouse, the wheat does not need a warehouse to be stored ? the wheat needs a warehouse to be stored ? to store. Did Dr Seuss help him write this? The conference audience scratched their heads, trying to figure out whether the wheat needs storage silos or not. We found some people standing on the roofs of buildings and firing machine gun rounds towards the Port Said prison. We sent two army helicopters to hover over them and we expected that they would be intimidated. But, instead, they fired back at the helicopters using Grinov machine guns. Addressing Egyptian expats on a trip to Germany, Morsi commented on the riots in Port Said. One of the trip?s goals? To assure potential investors that Egypt was safe. For those who stay up until the early hours of the morning: when do you sleep, when do you work? How do you expect to be gifted by God in your job while you are not performing the dawn prayers? Morsi, justifying a government decision to close shops by 10pm, showed his fatherly side. Many of the world?s billionaires and most successful people probably do not perform their dawn prayers. Some people think they can escape my attention and go to an alley to do something wrong. Morsi has never been clearer. Something wrong? In an alley? Guess what it could be. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdo?an speaks during his Justice and Development Party's AK Party parliamentary group meeting on July 2, 2013. Photo: Cihan, Emrullah Bayrak 5 July 2013 /TODAYSZAMAN.COM, ?STANBUL Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdo?an has strongly criticized Western nations, particularly the European Union, for turning a blind eye to the army intervention in Egypt that overthrew former President Mohamed Morsi and put in place an interim technocrat president to lead the country out of the political standoff. Erdo?an leveled criticism against Western nations for not terming the army intervention a ?military coup? and said this doesn't fit into values of the West. He said all coups, no matter where or against whom they take place, are ?bad, inhumane and the enemy of democracy.? The Egyptian military forced Morsi out on Wednesday after millions of Egyptians turned out for four days of protests. After its top leaders were targeted with arrest warrants, the Muslim Brotherhood hotly rejected an appeal by the military to take part in forming a new regime. Morsi's removal follows protests by Egyptians angry over what they see as his efforts to impose control through the Muslim Brotherhood and his failures to deal with the country's many problems. The prime minister said he is surprised at the Western reaction to the coup and stated that these nations failed to describe it as a ?coup.? ?What happened to their democratic ideals? This is a test of sincerity,? Erdo?an said, referring to ?double standards.? Erdo?an was alluding to last month's criticism of Turkey by the EU after police used heavy-handed methods to quell the protests linked to Gezi Park, adjacent to ?stanbul's famed Taksim Square. For days, Erdo?an criticized the EU for siding with the protesters and blasted a decision by the European Parliament rebuking Ankara for its handling of the unrest. Erdo?an urged the EU to again read its ?EU acquis,? a lengthy charter that governs EU values and norms. However, he hailed the African Union for suspending Egypt's membership after the army removed Morsi and suspended the constitution. The prime minister also lashed out at those who call the army intervention ?popular? and said the intervention cannot be justified as democratic behavior. He underlined the fact that he is calling what happened in Egypt a ?military coup? and not an ?intervention.? Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozda? also denounced on Friday those who jubilantly celebrated and shed tears of joy for the military coup. ?It is a shameful situation to celebrate the military coup jubilantly and shed tears of happiness,? said Bozda? as he likened those who welcomed the coup to pro-coup circles who disregarded the national will and the rule of law in Egypt. Bozda?'s remarks were published on his official Twitter account. He added that regardless of where and by whom they are done, coups should be rejected and denounced by those who believe in justice, democracy and the national will. Erdo?an said some supporters of the coup utter phrases such as ?Coups are bad, but? and that they are justifying the coup. He said that there cannot be a ?democratic coup,? calling this a paradox. He argued that those ?who look at streets and ignore the ballot box cannot display a principled and ethical position.? Erdo?an's government has had an aversion to military intervention in politics and since coming to power a decade ago, and has curtailed the powers of the Turkish military, which staged three coups between 1960 and 1980 and forced a democratically elected government out of office in 1997. The prime minister criticized the Egyptian military without naming it explicitly, saying: ?You rule the country for 30-40 years with a single party but then you can't tolerate a president elected freely. It is against democracy.? He said it is possible that governments make mistakes but the ballot box is the only legitimate way to do away with the governments people don't want. Throughout his speech, Erdo?an frequently stressed that a democratically elected leader could only be unseated through elections and harshly criticized those who attempt to justify an army's intervention based on mistakes by the previous government. Erdo?an said, ?What we have in Egypt is the minority imposing their will on the majority,? and not vice versa. The prime minister said Turkey fully supported the Jan. 25 revolution, referring to the 18-day mass protests that forced former President Hosni Mubarak's resignation, and that his country was happy to see Egypt get rid of a ?dictator,? referring to Mubarak. But he also expressed concerns that the progress made as a result of the 2011 revolution are being undermined as a result of Wednesday's coup. Erdo?an affirmed that the ballot box ?is not everything? but slammed those who justify illegal means to overthrow governments based on this idea. Erdo?an also criticized Western countries for not backing the Egypt's nascent democracy with financial aid and said only Qatar and Turkey helped Egypt revive its economy. The government of Qatar, which has provided $7.5 billion in grants and low-interest loans, has been close to the Muslim Brotherhood and may view Morsi's ouster as a diplomatic setback. Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood group has long viewed Erdo?an's government as a success story, mixing a strong economy with Western ties and Islamic piety -- and the two had been working toward strengthening ties. Last year, Turkey pledged $2 billion in aid to boost confidence in Egypt's economy, which was battered by a tourism slump, strikes and protests since the fall of Mubarak in the 2011 uprising. Erdo?an dismissed claims that Turkey is positioning itself against the current revolution because his government was an ally of Morsi and said they would have display the same position if the coup had been staged against those who were in the opposition demanding Morsi's resignation. Erdo?an urged the interim government to embrace all political actors in Egypt during the transition period and expressed ?deep concerns? over a wave of arrests of politicians. He said ?those who came to power through the coup are planning to put Morsi in prison.? Morsi has been under detention in an unknown location since Wednesday night, and at least a dozen of his top aides and advisers have been under what is described as house arrest, though their locations are also unknown. Besides the Brotherhood's top leader, General Guide Mohammed Badie, security officials have also arrested his predecessor, Mahdi Akef, and one of his two deputies, Rashad Bayoumi, as well as Saad el-Katatni, head of the Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party, and ultraconservative Salafi figure Hazem Abu Ismail, who has a considerable street following. Authorities have also issued a wanted list for more than 200 Brotherhood members and leaders of other conservative groups. Among them is Khairat el-Shater, another deputy of the general and a man widely considered the most powerful figure in the Brotherhood. Erdo?an spoke at length on how a tradition of military coups in Turkey put his country into ?deep darkness? and how they backfire in the long run despite initial popularity. The prime minister urged Egyptians who are cheering the army's intervention to carefully and closely take a look at the history of military coups in Turkey. Every military coup, Erdo?an stressed, took Turkey ?10 years back in time.? ?Egyptians should read Turkish history well.? Published: July 5, 2013 But with Mr. Morsi?s ouster and the crackdown against the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt this week, Israelis see the prospect of a return to what they view as a more reliable status quo, as well as a weakening of Hamas, the militant Islamic group that runs Gaza. And yet, the good news for Israel remains tempered by the danger of chronic instability next door. ?What is important for Israel is a stable Egypt,? said Shaul Shay, a former deputy head of Israel?s National Security Council. ?I don?t see the Muslim Brotherhood there swallowing the blow and waiting another 80 years to try to return to power. The story is not over, despite the fireworks in Cairo.? While Mr. Morsi served as head of state, Israel?s only line of communication with Cairo was through the Egyptian military and security establishment, which is now controlling Egypt?s political process. Perhaps more reassuring to Israel is the role of Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, the top commander who led the move to depose Mr. Morsi. General Sisi is well known in Israel?s defense establishment from his past roles in military intelligence and in northern Sinai. An Israeli expert said that even after Mr. Morsi appointed General Sisi as his defense minister, the general?s office continued to communicate and coordinate directly with Israel. Israeli officials have maintained a diplomatic silence since Mr. Morsi?s overthrow, refusing to comment publicly on what they say is an internal Egyptian affair. ?We are observing very closely,? one official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the issue publicly. ?This is a matter of highest importance for us. We really hope the Egyptians manage to put together a functioning democracy, slowly but surely, but there is still a very high level of uncertainty.? He added, ?What?s next is anybody?s guess.? Still, for some Israelis, the fall of the Muslim Brotherhood was reason enough to celebrate. ?It?s good that the Muslim Brotherhood has gone,? said Zvi Mazel, a former Israeli ambassador to Egypt. ?If they had stayed in power for another two or three years, they?d have taken control of the military and everything else, and Egypt would have become like Iran.? Mr. Morsi did not radically shift Egyptian policy toward Israel, upholding Egypt?s commitment to the peace treaty. Under his authority, the Egyptian military acted in the volatile Sinai Peninsula against Islamic militants who had been attacking Egyptian forces in recent years and using the wild desert terrain to stage cross-border attacks against Israel. Israeli experts said Israeli-Egyptian security coordination over Sinai in the last year had been closer and more intense than during the era of Mr. Morsi?s predecessor, Hosni Mubarak. In November, Mr. Morsi played an instrumental role in brokering a cease-fire between Israel and Gaza, ending a fierce eight-day Israeli offensive. Hamas has since worked to rein in rocket fire by Gaza militants against southern Israel. With Egypt in flux, the Sinai Peninsula remains a potential source of friction. Early Friday, gunmen attacked an airport and Egyptian security forces there. The Egyptian authorities took the immediate step of indefinitely closing the Rafah crossing on the Gaza-Egypt border, presumably to block any potential access for Hamas to its allies in Egypt. It was a sign of the times for Hamas, which faces increasing isolation, experts said. When the Brotherhood was in power in Egypt, Hamas had a strong ally. For a while after Mr. Morsi?s election victory, Hamas felt empowered. Mr. Morsi sent his prime minister to Gaza in November in a show of solidarity amid the Israeli offensive. In October, the emir of Qatar became the first head of state to visit Gaza since Hamas took over in 2007. He pledged $400 million for major housing and infrastructure projects there. But the high expectations never fully materialized. The Rafah crossing remained limited to passengers and closed to commercial goods. The Egyptian military recently stepped up its campaign against the tunnels beneath the border that are used for smuggling goods, weapons and fugitives. The clampdown is causing shortages of cheap fuel and depriving Hamas of the significant tax revenues it collects from the underground trade. In addition, Qatar indefinitely suspended its projects in Gaza, partly because of the unstable situation in Egypt. Qatari officials were apparently unable to get to Gaza to endorse the second phase of the work. Hamas had already been suffering from a sharp drop in financing from Iran in recent months because the group did not stand by President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, its former patron, in his struggle against rebel forces. ?Hamas is in a very difficult situation because its outside relations are shrinking,? said Akram Atallah, a political analyst in Gaza. But Israeli experts cautioned that a weakened Hamas was not necessarily good for Israel, either, noting that weakness could also lead to extremism. Ehud Yaari, an Israel-based fellow with the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, described Egypt as ?the sick man on the Nile,? adding, ?A situation in which Egypt, a nation of 85 million people, is in danger of some kind of implosion is a horror scenario for all of us.? Internal chaos would also be likely to further erode Egypt?s historic role as a leader of the Arab world, but Israeli analysts said its influence had already been in decline for years. ?Egypt is busy with its own domestic problems and is not much of an actor on the regional scene,? said Efraim Inbar, the director of the Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies at Bar-Ilan University near Tel Aviv. Kita nampak betapa berserabutnya suasana politik di Masir. Parlimen yang ditegakkan melalui pilihanraya bebas yang pertama dalam sejarah Masir moden, tentera yang bahagian besar? perbelanjaaannya dibiayai oleh Amerika, negara-negara Arab jiran yang bimbang kejayaan Ikhwan membentuk kerajaan akan menular pengaruhnya ke negara masing-masing, Israel yang bimbang dengan? hubungan baik kerajaan Masir dengan Hamas, Amerika yang mahu terus menguasai percaturan politik rantau tersebut. Golongan sekular dan penyokong bekas Presiden? Mubarak yang memusuhi Ikhwan, golongan salafi? terutama Hizbu an-Nour yang? berkonfrontasi dengan Ikhwan. Universiti Azhar yang mengambil sikap resmi sebagai? 'orang tengah'? yang dipandang goyah pendiriannya. Sebahagian besar dari kelompok-kelompok ini meraikan 'kejatuhan' Presiden Mursi. Sebahagiannya meraikan penggulingan ini sebagai 'the death to political Islam'. Tidak banyak yang meraikan penggulingan ini bercakap tentang 'kehormatan untuk undian rakyat', 'pendemokrasian rantau Arab , termasuk golongan sekular, umpama Bardaie sendiri. Sedangkan sebelum ini golongan ini bercakap tentang sistem demokrasi & kebebasan seumpama? perkara ini adalah 'agama' bagi mereka. Suara majoriti rakyat tidak dihirau dan tidak diambil kira. Sebenarnya inilah kali kedua percubaan gerakan Islam dalam pilihanraya disabotaj? mentah-mentah, sebelum ini FIS di Algeria dan kini di Masir. Pemuka-pemuka demokrasi di barat sebenarnya hanya bermuka-muka, demokrasi dipaksa ke atas negara di rantau lain sekiranya? sistem itu menguntungkan mereka, sekiranya sistem itu mampu mengamcam mereka, maka mereka lah juga orang-orang yang merancang dan berusaha untuk mengahjncurkan demokrasi. Sudah tiba masanya untuk kita berkata secara terangan kepada barat: biarlah kamu dengan demokrasi kamu . Bagi kita ummah ini pula, kita perlu berfikir panjang dan merenung semula tentang kewajaran strategi kita menyertai sistem demokrasi. Begitu banyak tenaga, masa dan harta benda dihabiskan untuk memenangi pilihanraya, selain daripada perpecahan dan perbalahan antara kita, apakah sebenarnya yang kita dapat sumbangkan kepada agama? Mungkin saja Ikhwan sebagi kuasa politik dapat disabotaj, tetapi Ikhwan sebagai badan dakwah akan terus teguh dan tersebar luas, insyaallah. Kekuatan Ikhwan bukan pada penglibatannya dalam politik, tetapi kekuatannya pada dakwah dan aktiviti kebajikannya. Alangkah sayunya kita apabila melihat suasana ummah yang begitu kucar kacir, dari Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria kini Masir. Mungkin suasana kucar kacir ini akan merebak dan mengepung ummah ini di seluruh rantau itu. Oh Tuhan , bantulah ummah ini , cerahkan masa depan mereka , sejahterakan hati-hati mereka,,,,