The government calls it ?Operation Open Market,? a four-year investigation resulting, so far, in four federal grand jury indictments against 55 defendants in 10 countries, facing a cumulative millennium of prison time. What many of the alleged scammers, carders, thieves, and racketeers have in common is one simple mistake: They bought their high-quality fake IDs from a sophisticated driver?s license counterfeiting factory secretly established, owned, and operated by the United States Secret Service. A broad coalition of groups supporting everything from religion, drugs, digital rights to guns and the environment sued the National Security Agency today, demanding a federal judge immediately halt what they are calling an unconstitutional program of dragnet electronic surveillance stemming from the government's vast collection of Americans' phone-calling data. The lawsuit, lodged in San Francisco federal court, is at least the fourth challenging the government's wholesale phone surveillance program first disclosed by the Guardian newspaper which last month began publishing documents leaked to the media outlet by former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden. Did you hear the one about the world's most infamous music file-sharer being asked to publicly extol the virtues of the Recording Industry Association of America's anti-piracy platform? The RIAA is suggesting that Jammie Thomas-Rasset do just that. In exchange, the recording studios' lobbying and litigation arm would reduce a $222,000 jury verdict the Supreme Court let stand in May -- her punishment for sharing 24 songs on the now-defunct file-sharing service Kazaa. It took more than eight years for a CIA analyst and a California computer scientist to crack three of the four coded messages on the CIA's famed Kryptos sculpture in the late '90s. Little did either of them know it at the time, but a small group of cryptanalysts inside the NSA had beat them to it and deciphered the same three sections of Kryptos years earlier -- and they did it in less than a month, according to new documents obtained from the NSA. A federal judge today rejected the President Barack Obama administration's assertion that the state secrets defense barred a lawsuit alleging the government is illegally siphoning Americans' communications to the National Security Agency. U.S. District Judge Jeffrey White in San Francisco, however, did not give the Electronic Frontier Foundation the green light to sue the government in a long-running case that dates to 2008, with trips to the appellate courts in between. Prosecutors are shifting their focus to warrantless cell-tower locational tracking of criminal suspects in the wake of the Supreme Court's ruling 18 months ago that law enforcement should acquire probable-cause warrants from judges to affix GPS devices to vehicles to track their every movement. But the law on cell-site locational tracking is all over the books, with judges offering mixed rulings on whether warrants are needed, with no clarity in sight. That means some suspects are being convicted based on locational data of what towers their cell phones are pinging, and others are not, because some courts are requiring warrants and others don't. Federal prosecutors are urging a federal judge to demand a Wisconsin man promptly decrypt several hard drives they believe contain child pornography. The authorities have been litigating the constitutionality of the decryption issue for months, and want the suspect, Jeffrey Feldman, to decrypt the drives before he forgets the passwords. Federal prosecutors say Feldman may, even after decrypting, continue litigating his claim that the Fifth Amendment protects him from having to unlock at least seven hard drives in the case.