Interim president Adly Mansour has issued a decree giving himself power to issue laws in consultation with the government and laying out a political road map, Reuters reports. Parliamentary elections would be held within 15 days of the constitution's approval by referendum. Those elections must be held over a period of no more than two months. We're going to wrap up our live blog coverage for the day. Here's a summary of where things stand: ? The Muslim Brotherhood called for additional protests after 51 supporters of deposed president Mohamed Morsi were killed and 435 wounded in clashes with the military Monday morning. One soldier and two police officers were killed and dozens injured in the fighting at Republican Guard headquarters. The Guardian's Patrick Kingsley?interviewed hospitalised demonstrators?wounded in the clashes. ? Each side accused the other of initiating the violence. Brotherhood members said they were shot as they ended dawn prayers. The army said armed attackers tried to breach the compound where Morsi was thought to be held. ? The Nour party, key Islamist allies for the interim government, said it would cease participation in the political transition on account of the bloodshed. The opposition National Salvation Front condemned the violence. The interim government announced an investigation into the killings.? ??Muslim Brotherhood members and supporters of the Freedom and Justice Party kept up a large rally?outside Rabaa al-Adaweya mosque in Nasr City, near the scene of the morning massacre.? ? Former finance minister Samir Radwan has emerged as the favorite for the post of interim prime minister, according to senior political sources quoted by Reuters. ? Interim president Adly Mansour issued a decree laying out a timeline for Egypt's political road map that includes a referendum on a new constitution within five months and new presidential elections about two months after that. ? The White House said it would not be in US interests to discontinue aid to Egypt. The state department would not say whether it still considers Mohamed Morsi president of Egypt.? ? Al-Jazeera journalists were ejected for perceived pro-Muslim Brotherhood bias by other media members from an army news conference on the killings. Threatening leaflets reportedly turned up outside al-Jazeera offices. A New York Times journalist was ejected from Tahrir Square. Charges of bias abounded. There are initial reports on a?timeline for Egypt's political road map. ?Al-Masry Al-Youm?reports?that presidential media adviser?Ahmed al-Muslimani said on TV Monday that a new constitutional assembly would be chosen in two weeks; a referendum on a new constitution would be held in four months; parliamentary elections would be held two weeks after that and a new presidential election would be held in six months. It's not clear how final that timeline is ? it may be a draft version. State TV apparently has yet to report it: ?I will teach my children that the army stole my president, stole my constitution, stole my voice and killed by brother,? said Hassan Ali, a protester who arrived at the square after hearing the news of Monday morning?s bloodshed. The Guardian's?Raya Jalabi @RayaJalabi ?has compiled a?digest of new analysis and features?on the developments in Egypt: On Sheep & Infidels, by Sarah Carr : Egyptian writer and journalist Carr takes on what she perceives to be the split in Egyptian society and politics along identity lines , and the resulting lack of nuance in local media's analysis of the pro-Morsi protests: For the past week I have been trundling between the pro- and anti-Morsi protests. It is like travelling between two planets. [...] In describing these [pro-Morsi] scenes, I am not seeking sympathy for pro-Morsi supporters. I disagree with them politically. Some of them have themselves been responsible for acts of unimaginable, barbaric violence. ...?My problem is with the reaction to them. The nominally non-partisan media variously ignores, belittles, or demonizes what represents a large section of Egyptian society. There is none of the nuance of the coverage of the anti-Morsi protests. The virulent, xenophobic anti-American sentiment of some protesters is not held to represent the collective. Systematic acts of sexual violence against women in Tahrir Square are not used to discredit the entire cause. When the pro-army tone started to appear it was emphasized that not all protesters back the military. The Egyptian media has by and large overlooked any similar inquiry into the motivations of the other side. Achieving consensus in Egyptian politics is proving easier said than done. With ElBaradei's candidacy for the premiership, the fractures among the diverse political forces that came together to bring down the Muslim Brotherhood are coming to the fore. Whoever emerges as the country's next prime minister will be charged with managing this increasingly unwieldy alliance: He will need all of his skills to keep it together and make the sort of political progress that will justify the turmoil of the past week. ...?By trying to please everyone, Egypt's new government runs the risk of accomplishing nothing. This graph shows why Egypt is falling apart, by Brad Plummer : The Washington Post's Wonk blog has put together a post detailing the economic roots of Egypt's current crisis, based on a recent interview with economist Carolin Freund it should be noted that Egypt's economic troubles predate Mubarak's fall : Since the military coup that toppled the Morsi government last week, some economists have been cautiously optimistic. The country?s stock market soared by 7 percent on Thursday, shortly after the coup. The BBC?quotes?several analysts hoping that Egypt can now finally apply for a long-stalled loan from the IMF to shore up its finances and make structural reforms. In our interview, Freund noted that many of those economic reforms were likely to be painful and controversial?? like scaling back Egypt?s fuel subsidies, which currently consume 8 percent of the country?s GDP. She argued that many of these moves would likely need to happen quickly: ?What we found is that in revolutions and other political transitions, speed seems to be an important factor for success. Otherwise, Egypt could keep jumping from crisis to crisis. White House spokesman Jay Carney said the United States government will take the time it needs to determine whether or not to label the Egyptian military's overthrow of the government as a coup, which would determine whether aid would continue. Psaki will not say that Mohamed Morsi is no longer the president of Egypt. She says he was elected a year ago but won't say whether the administration considers him to be out of office. It's a very fluid situation on the ground, she says.?She says the US supports an early election. Psaki is asked about a remarkable New York Times story Saturday that suggested the Obama administration choreographed ? or even puppeteered ? Morsi's exit. In a memorable scene from the story a Morsi aid conveys a message purportedly from the US government that the first democratically elected president of Egypt was done: We're on the side of the Egyptian people, Psaki says. We're not taking sides but we're in touch with all sides. The notion that we support one side or the other is incorrect. State department spokeswoman Jen Psaki is giving a news conference. She is being grilled about whether the Morsi ouster was a coup. Psaki says the state department has not decided whether it was a coup. The state department is trying to determine whether what happened fits the legal definition of a coup, she says. Impatience with foreign media, especially Western journalists, spiked after Morsi's ouster and its coverage as a coup. The opposition sees that characterization as giving short shrift to the millions of ordinary Egyptians who protested in the streets day after day. Some outlets such as CNN have been blamed for a bias in both directions. Journalists who have covered the Egyptian street closely and evenly since before 25 January are now being accused of bias. The media is turning on itself, too: this afternoon journalists demanded that?Al-Jazeera reporters be kicked out of?the military news conference, accusing them of pro-Muslim Brotherhood bias.? Update: Al-Jazeera correspondent Rawya Rageh is tweeting pictures of what she says were threatening fliers left outside the news organization's Cairo offices, where the bureau chief was detained briefly last week. One flier said A bullet may kill a person, a lying camera kills a nation. Another had a picture of a bloody hand: ? Health officials say at least 51 supporters of deposed president Mohamed Morsi were killed and 435 wounded from gunshots and other violence in dawn clashes with the military outside the Republican Guard headquarters in east Cairo.?The Guardian's Patrick Kingsley?interviewed hospitalised demonstrators?wounded in the clashes. ? Army and police spokesmen said one army officer and at least one police officer the BBC reports two was killed and dozens injured in the fighting. ? The Muslim Brotherhood and the army both held news conferences in which they blamed the other side for starting the violence. Both sides offered video to support their cases, but no conclusive documentation had emerged of how the clashes began. ? Morsi supporters said they had been fired on as dawn prayers came to a close. The army said armed terrorists had tried to storm the Republican Guard compound?where Morsi is believed to be detained and that the army had been attacked from rooftops. ? A standoff continued on at-Taiaran street near the scene of the clashes, with soldiers and protesters?separated by barbed wire and makeshift barriers. ? Egypt's interim administration has convened a?judicial committee to investigate this morning's killings, according to the Egyptian state news agency. ??The ultra-orthodox Islamist Nour party, which had been supportive of the army?s ousting of Morsi, said it would withdraw from the stalled negotiations to form an interim government as a consequence of the shooting. I didn't see this, but journalist Evan Hill reports that the press corps applauded the military spokesman when he finished answering questions, too. Every country would allow soldiers to protect a military installation, he says. We have been on the street for 10 days, he says, protecting citizens. It is our duty since we deployed to protect you. The gas pipeline to Jordan has come under attack, he says, linking that to this morning's incident. We dealt with the protesters this morning with absolute wisdom and prudence, he says. Religious leaders are moving freely in Rabaa square, Ali says. No measures have been taken outside the law. Claims that the army targeted and killed children are not logical, he says. These images have been used before in Syria. Satellite stations have played clips of angry protesters carrying firearms and cartridges, he says. The armed forces handed down more than one warning, he says, that military units and personnel cannot be approached. This is common around the world, he says. Despite all this, the army dealt with the angry protesters with absolute prudence and sympathy, he says. An angry protester is an Egyptian citizen, a brother whose protection is the duty of the army, he says. The scene spiralled out of peacefulness at about 4am, he says. An armed group attacked the perimeters around the Republican Guard HQ, and the personnel responsible for securing the premises ? from the army and police ? were attacked by live ammunition, Ali says. At the same time other groups started to climb up the buildings nearby and throw stones, molotov cocktails, bombs and heavy objects, Ali says, resulting in the death of one army officer and the injury of 42. Many of them are in a very critical condition, he says. He wants to show some video clips that will support his statement, he says. After 30 June the country started to see a new wave of violence and rioting, he says. Today an unforeseen development took place, he says. Forces were surprised this morning to see some among the gathering starting to throw stones, he says. This developed with people in the crowd firing on the police and Republican Guard. A police officer was killed. All that's going on here and in Sinai is to disturb the glorious image witnessed by the whole world, he says. We cannot allow this. We are all Egyptians. We will stand up firmly and strictly to any violation of the law, regardless of any affiliation, he says. Abbas Araqchi, a spokesman for the Iranian foreign ministry, has called the ousting of Mohamed Morsi unacceptable in comments that go much further than his reaction last Thursday, when he called for the Egyptian people's legitimate demands to be fulfilled. Iran welcomed the popular overthrow of Hosni Mubarak in 2011, calling it an Islamic awakening inspired in part by its own 1979 revolution, and after Morsi's election victory last year it sought to repair its strained ties with Egypt. If you have any eyewitness accounts or information about what's happening to you or the people around you that will help us document the situation share your images, video or text via GuardianWitness. They?ve been saying wildly conflicting things ? It?s worth bearing in mind that they come from a military area ? I met someone who said he was a personal friend of Hosni Mubarak?s, and someone else who was an ex-policeman. That gives you a kind of flavour of the people who were here. The ex-policeman said... the Muslim Brotherhood group tried to attack this barbed-wire fence. The police moved in, slowly, slowly, firing teargas ? I also talked to a guy who lived up the road who says that ? the first thing that happened was a whole load of teargas being fired which then caused a lot of panic which then in turn caused members of the Muslim Brotherhood to start a shooting match with the army. He said shots were fired on both sides ... There?s a real sense of confusion about what exactly happened. It may be that there were aggressors in the protest group as well as those who weren?t interested in violence at all. We?ll just have to wait and see. He said that in Rabaa, where pro-Morsi protesters have been holding a sit-in for days, ?it feels like a stand-off between the army and protesters?. It expressed deep regret for the victims and said the incident resulted from an attempt to storm the Republican Guard headquarters ? backing the army's version of events. Here is a summary of today?s key events so far: ? A reported 42 people were killed early this morning in a shooting incident outside the headquarters of the Egyptian Republican Guard, the building where it is thought that deposed president Mohamed Morsi is being held by the army. A doctor said 1,000 people had been injured. ??There are conflicting accounts about what led to the killings. The Egyptian military says gunmen from an ?armed terrorist group? and linked to the Muslim Brotherhood ? the Islamist organisation with which Morsi is affiliated ??tried to storm the building shortly after dawn, firing live ammunition and throwing firebombs, killing one police officer. But the Muslim Brotherhood said troops opened fire at protesters, including women and children, none of whom had attacked the troops. The Guardian's Patrick Kingsley spoke to a number of witnesses who gave differing accounts of what happened. Accounts from five of the wounded backed the Brotherhood?s version of events.? ??The Muslim Brotherhood issued a statement calling on Egyptians to ?rise up? against those who had ?stolen? the revolution, but a spokesman clarified later that the appeal was for a peaceful uprising . In Rabaa, where pro-Morsi protesters have held a sit-in since the president was toppled, a tense stand-off is ongoing between demonstrators and troops. At a raucous press conference the Brotherhood vowed to continue what it had started ??but said it was peaceful. ??Mohamed ElBaradei, the former head of the UN?s International Atomic Energy Agency and opposition figurehead whose name has been linked this week with the post of prime minister, condemned the violence and called for an ?independent investigation? ? presumably into this morning?s mass shooting. Hamdeen Sabahi, the former presidential candidate who is Egypt's main leftwing leader, called for the immediate formation of an interim government. The ultra-orthodox Islamist Nour party, which had been supportive of the army?s ousting of Morsi, said it would withdraw from the stalled negotiations to form an interim government as a consequence of the shooting. ? The overnight killings in Cairo have plunged Egypt into new uncertainty just hours after supporters and opponents of Morsi ? deposed by the army last week in response to large public protests against his rule ? held rival mass rallies in the capital and elsewhere. Morsi supporters condemn his overthrow as a military coup. Opponents portray it as a continuation of the revolution that toppled Hosni Mubarak in 2011. Sorry for the delay. We have had some technical problems. The Muslim Brotherhood has just held a raucous and angry press conference. Spokesmen held up bullets they said had not been shot by soldiers who refused to shoot at the protesters. The press conference was frequently punctuated by chanting. The MB showed videos its spokesmen said showed army snipers on rooftops. We never expected people would be shot by live ammunition, a spokesman said, and as a result hospitals were unprepared for the large numbers of serious casualties. A doctor addressed the press conference. The Jewish as the translator had it ? presumably the doctor was referring to Israel never carried out such atrocities against the Palestinians, he said. Three hours last night were some of the worst hours he had seen in his life, he said. He said 1,000 injured people had been reported. There were 150 cases of people being hit by live bullets, a record that should be in the Guinness Book of Records, he said. What you have seen on video is only the tip of the iceberg in terms of bullet wounds, the doctor said. He mentions a man who had part of his skull removed. These cases were worse than those that took place during the 2011 revolution. This has made the MB more resolved and more adamant to continue what they have started, the spokesman said. We will never surrender. We are revolutionaries. We are peaceful. And we will stay until the end, he said. Mohamed Badie, the leader of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood, has said that the army chief Abdel Fattah al-Sisi wants to drive Egypt to the same fate as Syria, Reuters has reported. Meanwhile, the British foreign secretary, William Hague, has condemned this morning?s killings and called on all sides to avoid violence. He said: I call on the Egyptian authorities to investigate the events that led to these deaths and ensure that those responsible are held to account in accordance with the rule of law. It is crucial that there is a swift return to democratic processes in Egypt. All sides of the political spectrum should work together for the sake of the country?s political and economic future. It is for the Egyptian people to chart a way forward. However in our view this should include a path to free and fair elections in which all parties can compete, the release of political leaders and journalists, and work to agree a constitution and the checks and balances of a democratic system that respects the rights of all Egypt?s citizens. Urgent steps to improve economic conditions in the country are also vital. Military spokesman Col. Ahmed Mohammed Ali said initial information indicates that gunmen affiliated with the Brotherhood tried to storm the Republican Guard building shortly after dawn, firing live ammunition and throwing firebombs from a nearby mosque and rooftops. One police officer on the scene was killed, he said. A statement by the armed forces published on the state news agency said an armed terrorist group tried to storm the Republican Guard building, killing one officer and seriously wounding six. The statement said the forces arrested 200 attackers, armed with guns and ammunition. There were dawn prayers and then I heard someone calling for help, so the imam finished the prayers quickly. Just before we finished, the shooting started. The army units that were standing in front of the Republican Guards' headquarters first started shooting tear gas, then live ammunition above people's heads. People started to fall back and then an armoured vehicle came round the right-hand side [ie from behind the protesters] escorted by a group of soldiers with their rifles shooting directly into the people. I was taking cover with another guy behind some rubble and I felt something hit my head. I held my prayer mat in my hand and I started to cover my head with it but I couldn't stop the bleeding because there was so much blood. When we got to the hospital they at first refused to let me in. We were praying at dawn prayers. We were about to finish when firing started. The army came from Saleh Salem street [the road leading to the site; ie from behind] and started shooting at us. They were shooting with automatic weapons and live ammunition. It was like pouring rain. They started shooting tear gas and then live ammunition. We were shouting peaceful, peaceful , but the shooting continued. The army went through the tents [of those protesters sleeping overnight] and I couldn't see what was happening. Then I turned around and I saw snipers on the rooves. To a man they all reported that they were outside the Republican Guard headquarters, where Morsi has been allegedly held since his deposal on Wednesday. They got up for dawn prayers, they were almost finished with dawn prayers when they heard shouting. One man said he heard a soldier saying, ?Don?t shoot.? That soldier seems to have been the first man to have been shot. Then there was tear gas, then there was live fire fired in the air, before finally shots fired directly into the crowd. Then others reported running from the nearby Rabaa al-Adawiya mosque where tens of thousands have been occupying the space in support of Morsi for about a fortnight. They came running. Some of them said they were shot en route to the site, not even at the site itself. Accounts of what happened at the Republican Guard compound are starkly conflicting, but confirmation from the Egyptian health ministry that 34 people were killed makes it one of the worst incidents in the country?s turbulent history since the overthrow of Hosni Mubarak in February 2011. Morsi?s Muslim Brotherhood quickly condemned the incident as a ?massacre? that had been launched during dawn prayers. But the army said in a statement that the compound had been the target of an attack by an ?armed terrorist group . Good morning, and welcome to today?s Middle East live blog. Here are the latest headlines from Egypt: ? An Egyptian health ministry official has said that at least 34 people have been killed in a shooting incident outside the headquarters of the Republican Guard in Cairo. Khaled el-Khatib said that initial reports indicated that 300 people were also wounded in the attack outside the building. Gehad el-Haddad, the official spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood, said 37 supporters of former president Mohamed Morsi had been killed. Earlier, Egyptian military officials had said that gunmen had killed at least five Morsi supporters when people tried to storm the building. It is believed that the former Muslim Brotherhood-affiliated president, deposed by the army last week, is being held at the Republican Guard compound. ? The ultra-orthodox Islamist Nour party, which had been supportive of the army?s ousting of Morsi, said it would withdraw from the stalled negotiations to form an interim government as a consequence of the shooting. Party spokesman Nader Bakar said on Facebook that Nour had withdrawn from ?all tracks of negotiations as a first response? to the ?massacre at the Republican Guard [compound]?. Here Patrick Kingsley looks at how the Nour party has maneuvered itself into an enviably strong position during the last week?s crisis.