We are winding down the blog now but will be back within hours with further coverage from Egypt. Here's a summary for now: ? Crowds estimated into the hundreds of thousands have turned out in Cairo and elsewhere around Egypt to demand the removal of the country's president, Mohamed Morsi. ? The main gatherings were in Tahrir square in Cairo and outside the presidential palace, with the two groups due to join up later. ? At least four people and nearly 200 wounded in clashes between supporters and opponents of President Morsi in various parts of the country, according to Reuters. All four dead were said to have been shot in Nile Valley towns south of Cairo. ? The headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood in east Cairo was the focus of concerted attacks by opponents of President Morsi. Petrol bombs were thrown at the building, from where occupants fired birdshot. Medics at the scene said that dozens were injured. ? There have also been heavily attended demonstrations in favour of the president. Islamist groups have gathered in Nasr City in east Cairo, to support Morsi. ? A spokesman for President Morsi said late on Sunday night that he knows that he has made mistakes and is working to fix them. The spokesman also told a late-night news conference that Morsi was was serious in his repeated calls for national dialogue. ? In an interview with the Guardian, Morsi has dismissed calls for his removal, saying this would make a mockery of constitutional processes. ? So far the action appears to be mainly good natured, with less violence than seen in recent days. However, there are fears clashes could break out later. Some analysis now that might help to put today's events into some perspective. Michael Hanna, a fellow at the Century Foundation, and a longtime Egypt analyst, says: The scenes of protests are unprecedented in size and scope, and seemingly surpass those during the 18-day uprising that toppled Mubarak. a bottom-up, grassroots effort and not directed by political opposition leaders. In a sense, they have latched onto this expanding current. While the organizers were diligent and creative, while lacking organization and funding, this breadth of mass mobilization could not have transpired unless the protest movement was taping into deep and growing frustration and is enchantment with the current course of the country and its leadership. The [Tamarod] statement called upon all state and security apparatus ?police, army and judiciary? to side with the ?people?s will?clearly displayed in the different squares in Egypt on Sunday,? in reference to the millions who took to the streets demanding the ousting of Morsi. People are beginning to drift away from Tahrir Square now, according to some reports from there. That's about five miles away from from the headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood, where this evening's clashes took place in the district of Al Muqattam City see map below . The spokesman, Omar Amer, also told a late-night news conference that Morsi was was serious in his repeated calls for national dialogue. He added that Morsi had extended his hand for dialogue and wanted to listen to everyone, repeating the president's previous calls for national dialogue which the opposition has rebuffed as not serious. I want to confirm one truth, if there is a total lack of response to this initiative, no listening to it, no interest in it from any side, what do you think the presidency can do? The presidency is now waiting for a reaction, no matter how small, so it can build on it. The leader of Egypt's Islamist Nour party has urged his sometime ally, President Morsi, to make concessions to avert bloodshed. Presenting himself as a mediator with protesters on the streets, Younis Makhyoun told Reuters that protesters were wrong to try to topple Egypt's first elected leader. But he said Morsi could still be brought down unless he compromises. A bit of background on the Nour party: It helped Morsi wield power but has since distanced itself from Islamist factions rallying round him. It took more than a fifth of parliament seats 18 months ago. There must be concessions, even if they are difficult and bitter, to safeguard the blood of Egyptians. We are worried about an escalation that will be hard to control, and that guns will have the loudest voice. The president is banking on the idea that this will be a mass protest, like the other protests, and there will be some losses, and then things will settle down. But this time matters are different. Reuters adds that, following Morsi's election win, Nour cooperated with the Muslim Brotherhood in fast-tracking into law a controversial constitution last year. But Nour has distanced itself from the Brotherhood this year, joining the critics who accuse Morsi and his movement of seeking to dominate public life. At least four people were killed in Egypt today and nearly 200 wounded in clashes between supporters and opponents of President Morsi, according to Reuters, which is basing that on security and medical sources. All four dead were said to have been shot in Nile Valley towns south of Cairo, one in Beni Suef and three in Assiut located below . With those deaths in mind, here's a tweet from the Twitter account of the arabist website: I've just been at the presidential palace, where many thousands of protestors are crammed into the streets outside. The president is not there, but the crowds symbolically chanted: Irhal! Leave. Many of them have hung small red cards around their necks, emblazoned with the same word.Hundreds are sitting on top of the makeshift walls that have been erected as an extra line of defence. Others are pressed against barbed wire fences, behind which members of the republican guard stand motionless. As far as I can see, there has been no serious attempt so far to break in. If many protesters did manage it, the outcome might be catastrophic, with the thousands of Morsi supporters camped up the road in Nasr City, a neighbouring district of Cairo, promising to defend the palace should it come under attack.The mood at the palace was festive and excitable. Fireworks went off every other minute, and cheers erupted every time a military helicopter passed over head. The cheers reflect wide opposition hopes for a military coup, with many having forgotten the chequered record of the military dictatorship that followed Mubarak's. It's the only institution capable of running the country, said Ahmed Mahmoud, a bank clerk outside the palace tonight. Some optimists claim that army rule would only last for a brief period to allow fresh elections to be held. But a more probable scenario is that if the army came to power it would stay for a long time. For many Islamists, having taken the democratic route but been denied the chance to see their leaders govern, opposition would not be a question of ideology but a matter of personal survival. What would prevent them from concluding that a future of arrest, torture and imprisonment awaits, a return to what they experienced under Mubarak? What would stop the ranks of extremists on both sides swelling? It adds that clashes have also been reported in the village of Birma in Gharbia province, north of Cairo. ? Crowds estimated into the hundreds of thousands have turned out in Cairo and elsewhere around Egypt to demand the removal of the country's president, Mohamed Morsi. ? The main gatherings were in Tahrir square in Cairo and outside the presidential palace, with the two groups due to join up later. ? There have also been heavily attended demonstrations in favour of the president. Islamist groups have gathered in Nasr City in east Cairo, to support Morsi. ? In an interview with the Guardian, Morsi has dismissed calls for his removal, saying this would make a mockery of constitutional processes. ? So far the action appears to be mainly good natured, with less violence than seen in recent days. However, there are fears clashes could break out later. It's still a festive mood outside the presidential palace in Heliopolis, north-east Cairo. Around 4,000 anti-Morsi protesters are waving flags and bobbing lightly to the sound of patriotic tunes played from a first-floor balcony. Nearby, a teenager does a wheelie on his motorbike. A few hundred metres away, a crowd pelts a vast, helpfully-placed picture of Morsi with stones. Elsewhere, there are big flags saying Irhal! , or Leave! , while someone has stretched a super-long, anti-Muslim Brotherhood banner along the makeshift walls erected to protect the palace in recent days. Morsi got elected in a democratic way, says one Morsi critic, businessman Hassan Shanab, sitting in a wheelchair. But since he took over, everything's been polarised. All of a sudden we see ourselves part of an Islamic regime like Iran. Most of the anti-Morsi crowds are still at Tahrir square, which I'm told is close to capacity, despite the heat. But later the focus will shift here, as protesters march from Tahrir ? and there are fears of fighting. If attempts are made to break inside the palace, it's possible that the Islamists nearby in Nasr City will come to protect it. Tahrir Doctors, who tend to the injured at most Cairo protests, have set up three field hospitals, staffed by 30-odd medics. If we get any injured from any side, we will treat them equally, says Dr Amr Shebaita, the group's head. It's worth noting that Morsi's opponents are split between those who want to see the army take over, and those who remember the army's repressive interim government, following the fall of Mubarak, with bitterness. Those in the former camp have been perched outside the Defence Ministry in recent days, demanding army intervention. Thousands may be gathering against Morsi in Tahrir Square, but here in Nasr City ? five miles away in east Cairo ? the sentiment is very different. Here, 20,000 Islamists have camped out in support of Morsi since Friday, and they say they're ready to defend the president should his secular opponents try to force him from power. The crowd will likely swell five-fold again today. Seculars will not rule Egypt again, chant one crowd of Morsi-backers. They're lined up in well-formed platoons, and wearing an odd selection of builders' hardhats and motorbike helmets. Many carry sticks and homemade shields emblazoned with the slogan Legitimacy is a red line , a reference to Morsi's democratic mandate. I've been here a few times in recent days, and the mood is far more jittery than it has been in the past. Chastened by attacks on Muslim Brotherhood headquarters across the country this week, they expect to be targeted again today. There are a startling six lines of security checks before you get inside there was only one on Friday and many say they are here to protect against what they see as the possibility of a counter-revolution. In their eyes, the 2011 uprising was an Islamic one, and is being disrupted by saboteurs loyal to ousted dictator Hosni Mubarak. Now we're seeing the revolution being threatened, said Mohamed Sherif Abdeen, an IT teacher and member of the Muslim Brotherhood. He was carrying a stick, and clad in a hardhat ? for self-defence, he said. We won't do anything if the army and police do their job. But if not, and they don't protect the presidential palace, we will protect it with our chests. President Morsi appeared confident in the hour we had with him yesterday in his strategy to counter what may prove to be a pivotal week of his short presidency. It is to allow peaceful protest, counter and contain any violence, and stick rigidly to the terms of the constitution now in place. The presidential camp is deeply sceptical about the number of signatures the opposition claimed to have gathered calling for a referendum on Morsi's presidency. It doubts the numbers the opposition have vowed to throw onto the streets outside the Itahadiya palace and their ability to keep them there. But all talk of the sort of mediated solution, which the US and European officials were trying to confect a month ago, has melted away. Tonight and the days to come will be about a trial of street strength. The stakes are high for both sides. Morsi has to walk a very fine line between upholding his authority, and behaving as a president presiding over a deeply polarised society. A major outbreak of violence in Cairo, and harsh police response could upset that balance dramatically, and then pressure would grow on the army to intervene. The top brass of the army are behind Morsi, but everyone is watching and waiting. Many independent papers urged people onto the streets on the very day that Morsi completes his first year in office: Street to Mursi: One year's enough, headlined Al-Masry Al-Youm. Others referred to what many protesters will demand: Red card for the president . Others went simply with: Judgment Day . Liberal leaders said nearly half the voting population ? 22m people ? had signed a petition calling for new elections, although there is no one obvious challenger to Morsi. With the long dominant, US-funded military waiting in the wings, and world powers fearing violence may unhinge an already troubled Middle East, Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood and radical allies pledge to defend what they say is the legitimate order. Several people have been killed, including an American student, and hundreds wounded in days of street fighting. Morsi calls his opponents bad losers backed by thugs from Mubarak's old secret police. He is banking on the coalition being a damp squib. He met the army chief on Saturday as well as leaders of allied Islamist parties. An economic crisis deepened by unrest and political deadlock might spur many less partisan Egyptians to join the rallies, due to start in the afternoon in Cairo. But many, too, are weary of turmoil and sceptical that the opposition's demand to reset the rules of the new democracy is better than soldiering on. The streets are eerily empty in Cairo. It's the first day of the working week in Egypt, which would usually mean traffic jams aplenty. But today there are barely any cars ? perhaps a symptom both of the protests, and the fuel shortage that has seen Egyptians queue for hours for petrol in recent days. Many of those?cars still on the road are draped in Egyptian tricolores. I'll be moving between the pro-Morsi rally in east Cairo ??where 20,000 Islamists have camped since Friday ? and the half-dozen?marches and rallies calling for the president's departure. Thousands are expected to gather in Tahrir Square, the cradle of the 2011 uprising. But the main protest will take place outside the presidential palace in Heliopolis, a middle-class suburb in north-east Cairo. President Morsi himself won't be there ? he's decamped to safer surroundings. Yesterday he was at the nearby Quba palace ? where we interviewed him ? ahead of the strongest test of his authority?in his year in office. What struck me most was how much of a cocoon it was ??far from the crowds, quiet, and almost entirely male. Little wonder he seemed to?feel?so confident. If we changed someone in office who [was elected] according to constitutional legitimacy ? well, there will people or opponents opposing the new president too, and a week or a month later, they will ask him to step down. Thousands of Egyptians are gathered in Cairo's Tahrir Square to call for the removal of the country's president, Mohamed Morsi, on the anniversary of his accession to office. Other protests are planned elsewhere around the country, with organisers claiming in advance the support of millions of people. Today could thus play a significant part in shaping the future of the country, two and a half years after similar populist protests toppled the long-serving Hosni Mubarak. This is all the more so given speculation that lined up against the protesters ? in a metaphorical sense only so far ? are the Morsi-supporting Muslim Brotherhood and, potentially, the military.