US president Barack Obama has refrained from describing the ousting as a coup d'?tat, but has said the US will review its aid policy with Egypt. UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon and EU foreign affairs and the EU's high representative for foreign affairs, Baroness Ashton, have voiced their concern at the situation, but also refrained from describing the events as a coup d'?tat. The death toll has risen to at least 14, as Morsi supporters and the military clashed in areas around the country. Two spokesmen for the Muslim Brotherhood described an attack on a rally in Cairo, which was later downplayed by reporters who visited the scene. A crackdown on media reporting has been criticised, following a raid on Al-Jazeera offices in Cairo and the closure of three TV channels. It has also been reported that 300 arrest warrants have been issued for Muslim Brotherhood members. Naming today's events in Egypt a coup d'?tat, is not just about semantics. The definition would drastically affect US foreign policy towards Egypt. The US gives around $1.25 billion in US aid and military aid to Egypt, which they may be obligated to cut back on if the events are a defined as a military coup. The 1961 Foreign Assistance Act says the US has to suspend aid to any country in the event of a military coup. But it does leave room for discretion. The language is complicated?but a?section of the law? restricts assistance to the government of any country whose duly elected head of government is deposed by military coup or decree.? Yesterday?President?Barack Obama?said he has ?directed the relevant departments and agencies to review the impact under US law for our assistance to the government of Egypt. But in a statement earlier today Obama refrained from defining the ousting as a?coup d'?tat. The potential for US aid money to be cut off is partly why Egyptian military leaders are emphatic in saying what has happened was not a military coup whatsoever , and Morsi saying that it is. Some foreign policy commentators have said a nuanced approach is needed?as what's going on in Egypt may yet be a form of democratic expression, given that - according to his sources - more people demonstrated against Morsi's government than voted for him in the election.? There was a brief outbreak of shooting early on Thursday around a gathering near a Cairo mosque of supporters of deposed president Mohamed Morsi, but witnesses said it was not clear that anyone was injured... Another Muslim Brotherhood spokesman,?Osama Gado, has told Reuters that the gathering was attacked by petrol bomb. El-Haddad has also spoken to Reuters and said that the pro-Morsi gathering occurred at a site near a mosque in Cairo where around 2,000 supporters had gathered, some of whom were praying at the time of the alleged attack. He said he was not sure if there had been any casualties. Australian prime minister Kevin Rudd has called for Egypt to make a swift return to democracy, as his government upgrades travel warnings urging hundreds of Australians in the country to consider leaving, AAP reports. Mr Rudd said he was aware of the controversies surrounding president Morsi's rule but described the latest developments are extraordinary . We want to see the return to full democratic government in Egypt as rapidly as possible, he said. I believe that's the expectation of the international community. We're not supporting it, we're not opposing it, he told ABC radio. Egypt?s transition is now at another delicate juncture following the army?s announcement that it is suspending the constitution and appointing the head of the constitutional court as interim head of state ? decisions that have not been accepted by President Morsy At this moment of continued high tension and uncertainty in the country, the Secretary-General reiterates his appeals for calm, non-violence, dialogue and restraint. An inclusive approach is essential to addressing their needs and concerns of all Egyptians... In their protests many Egyptians have voiced deep frustrations and legitimate concerns. At the same time, military interference in the affairs of any state is of concern. Therefore, it will be crucial to quickly reinforce civilian rule in accordance with principles of democracy. A Muslim Brotherhood spokesman has appeared live on the BBC via telephone, claiming that a pro-Morsi rally in Cairo has been attacked by a group carrying machine guns. Asked who he blamed, he replied: the military forces, for the whole thing. The death toll from clashes between Morsi supporters and the military, has been revised. At least 14 people have been killed around the country, Reuters say. Previously the numberwas said to be at least 10. Eight of those reported dead were in the northern city of Marsa Matrouh. Al-Anani Hamouda, a senior provincial security official, said two members of security forces were among those killed in the clashes. The 2013 Egyptian coup d'?tat occurred on 3 July when the minister of defense Abdul Fatah Khalil Al-Sisi announced the suspension of the constitution and the removal of the president from his office. The coup d'etat happened following mass protests calling for the deposition of the President Mohamed Morsi and was followed by massive cheers throughout Egypt. I urge all sides to rapidly return to the democratic process, including the holding of free and fair presidential and parliamentary elections and the approval of a constitution, to be done in a fully inclusive manner, so as to permit the country to resume and complete its democratic transition. At least 10 people were killed when opponents and supporters of Egypt's deposed president, Mohamed Morsi, clashed after the army announced his removal on Wednesday, state media and officials said. Gunfire broke out as rocks and bricks flew during fighting in Alexandria, witnesses said. At least three people were killed in the Mediterranean city, state news agency MENA reported. An earlier report said at least 50 people were wounded. One of the dead was a woman stabbed in the stomach, MENA said. Welcome to our continued coverage of a monumental day in Egypt, that has seen President Mohamed Morsi deposed and an interim government installed. My colleague in the US Tom McCarthy has written this summary of events so far: ? General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi announced the change in government in a televised address joined by influential leaders of opposition parties and religious groups. Among those who spoke after Sisi were opposition leader Mohamed ElBaradei, the sheikh of Al-Azhar mosque and the Coptic pope. Leaders of the Islamist Nour party also joined the announcement. ? Sisi said the?head of Egypt's supreme constitutional court, Adly Mansour, 68, would take over the presidential palace, the constitution would be suspended and new presidential elections would be held. Mansour was to be sworn in Thursday. ? Morsi reacted defiantly to the Sisi announcement, which he called a full coup. ?He communicated via Facebook, a Youtube video that was unpublished and a prerecorded audio track broadcast to rallies supporting him. He had not been seen in public Wednesday. Morsi insisted he is Egypt's only legitimate president but warned against bloodshed. ? The Egyptian street reacted jubilantly. ? Scattered clashes were reported after Sisi's address, with at least four killed. That number could not be confirmed and there were dire concerns that violence would spread as the import of the army announcement sinks in. Reports from the scenes of Muslim Brotherhood and Freedom and Justice Party rallies conveyed a dour mood in Cairo, while active clashes were reported in both coastal cities and upper Egypt.