Royal baby quiz ? how much do you know? | UK news | theguardian.com 	 		 														 	 	 	 		 			 							 	 	 	 	 	 		 Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off 	Jump to content [s] 				Jump to site navigation [0] 		Jump to search [4] 		Terms and conditions [8] 	 		 	 	 Edition: UK US AU Your activity Email subscriptions Account details Linked services Sign out Beta 			 	 	 							 		 			 						 		 	 		 					 	 	 	 			 			 		 					 				 	 			 					 	 		 			 	 				 				 		 							 	 	 		 						News 					 												 																			 						US 					 												 																			 						World 					 												 																			 						Sports 					 												 																			 						Comment 					 												 																			 						Culture 					 												 																			 						Business 					 												 																			 						Money 					 												 																			 						Environment 					 												 																			 						Science 					 												 																			 						Travel 					 												 																			 						Tech 					 												 																			 						Media 					 												 																			 						Life & style 					 												 																								 						Data 					 									 										 News UK news The Duchess of Cambridge 					 				 				 	 		 										 	 	 		 			 	 	 					 	 				 		 	 		 										 					 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 		 		 			 				 									Royal baby quiz ? how much do you know? 				 									What will the royal baby be called? Who said the bump was too small? And what advice did Pippa give to the parents-to-be? Test your knowledge of the news event of the century without further ado 				 							 		 		 												 Share 	 	 	 	 	 	 Tweet this 	 Email 					 	 													 	 	 		 	 							 	 		Hadley Freeman	 					 		 			 		 	 	 			theguardian.com, 				 Monday 22 July 2013 06.57 EDT 			 	 			 	 A correspondent for Mother and Baby magazine sets up a tent outside St. Mary's hospital in London, where the Duchess of Cambridge will give birth. Photograph: Andy Rain/EPA 	 	 		 			 												1. 				What triply alliterative description was widely used to describe the Duchess of Cambridge?s stomach during her pregnancy? 			 			 					 						Big bouncy belly. 						 					 									 							 					 						Topnotch tummy tastic. 						 					 									 							 					 						Burgeoning baby bump. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												2. 				What was the former prime minister of Australia, Julia Gillard, photographed making for the royal baby? 			 			 					 						A pair of crocodile baby shoes, with some assistance from Paul Hogan. 						 					 									 							 					 						A knitted kangaroo. 						 					 									 							 					 						A personalised box set of Neighbours and Home & Away. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												3. 				What did Kate?s infamous uncle Gary, former inhabitant of Ibiza?s Le Maison de Bang Bang, tell the Sun he would give his great niece or nephew? 			 			 					 						A lifetime's free entry to Pacha. 						 					 									 							 					 						A fat line of cocaine. 						 					 									 							 					 						A Chelsea football kit. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												4. 				TV presenter Beverley Turner, wife of James Cracknell, wrote a piece in the Daily Telegraph in which she insisted the Duchess must breastfeed for ... 			 			 					 						... ever. 						 					 									 							 					 						... the good of the nation. 						 					 									 							 					 						... the tabloids, who can then take a tasteful long-lens shot of her breasts. Bonus points if you know that Turner also referred to the Duchess? breasts as ?royal orbs? and ?milky bosoms.? 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												5. 				How many articles did the Daily Mail run saying the Duchess?s ?bump? looked too small during her pregnancy? 			 			 					 						None. 						 					 									 							 					 						At least 10. 						 					 									 							 					 						One hundred. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												6. 				How many months pregnant was the Duchess when the Mail ran its first piece fretting about how she will lose ?the baby weight?? 			 			 					 						Two. 						 					 									 							 					 						Nine. 						 					 									 							 					 						Minus 10. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												7. 				At the time of writing this quiz, how many results came out when googling ?Kate Middleton baby weight?? 			 			 					 						One billion. 						 					 									 							 					 						One thousand. 						 					 									 							 					 						Eighteen million. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												8. 				According to US Weekly, the Duchess found pregnancy ... 			 			 					 						?Fascinating?. 						 					 									 							 					 						?Fucking awful?. 						 					 									 							 					 						?Jolly good larks?. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												9. 				What were OK! and Hello!?s verdicts on the Duchess?s maternity style? 			 			 					 						?Incredible? and ?upping the glamour stakes?. 						 					 									 							 					 						?Slimming? and ?Diana-esque?. 						 					 									 							 					 						?Tubby? and ?unflattering?. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												10. 				According to the Sunday Times, who in the baby?s family will fill ?the chasm left by Diana?? 			 			 					 						Camilla. 						 					 									 							 					 						Pippa. 						 					 									 							 					 						Carole. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												11. 				Bookies recently had to shorten the odds from 500/1 to 250/1 on what potential baby name? 			 			 					 						Tulisa. 						 					 									 							 					 						Chardonnay. 						 					 									 							 					 						Beckham. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												12. 				What were the actual favourites for the baby?s name the week before the birth? 			 			 					 						Charles and Diana. 						 					 									 							 					 						Harry and Chelsy. 						 					 									 							 					 						George and Alexandra. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												13. 				What does Kris Jenner, mother of Kim Kardashian, grandmother of North West, think the royal baby should be named? 			 			 					 						Keanu. 						 					 									 							 					 						East. 						 					 									 							 					 						Kwilliam. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												14. 				What advice does Aunt Pippa offer in her book Celebrate about looking after babies? 			 			 					 						?Babies are very small and fragile so try not to drop them.? 						 					 									 							 					 						?Peekaboo is always a winner.? 						 					 									 							 					 						?Sometimes the baby needs feeding and sometimes the baby needs changing.? 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												15. 				What does Pippa suggest should be served at a baby?s first birthday? 			 			 					 						Baby food. 						 					 									 							 					 						Breast milk. 						 					 									 							 					 						Quail?s egg croustades. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												16. 				Following the 2013 Succession to the Crown Act, should the royal baby be a girl, how significant an advance will this be for modern British feminism? 			 			 					 						Very! Truly, Emily Davison did not die in vain. 						 					 									 							 					 						Please. We?re talking the royal family. You cannot use the word ?modern? in relation to that lot. 						 					 									 							 					 						A bit, I guess. But let?s be honest, unless that baby becomes a hardcore feminist activist, not much. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												17. 				Where will the royal baby reportedly spend its first few weeks? 			 			 					 						Buckingham Palace. 						 					 									 							 					 						Le Maison de Bang Bang, Ibiza. 						 					 									 							 					 						Chez Middleton. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												18. 				How has Prince Charles celebrated his imminent grandfatherhood? 			 			 					 						By giving his son and daughter-in-law a castle. 						 					 									 							 					 						By milking the public and flogging ?22.50 baby shoes from his shop in Highgrove. 						 					 									 							 					 						By buying a pipe. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												19. 				How much is the British public expected to spend celebrating the royal baby?s birth? 			 			 					 						?243m. 						 					 									 							 					 						?22.50. 						 					 									 							 					 						If they're anything like the quizmaster, not a single penny. 						 					 									 						 	 		 					 		 			 												20. 				Seeing as some commentators were discussing the Duchess? pregnancy prospects during the royal wedding, how long will the rightwing press wait after the birth before they start nagging William and Kate to have their second baby? 			 			 					 						One minute. 						 					 									 							 					 						One day. 						 					 									 							 					 						One week. 						 					 									 						 	 	 Submit your answers 			 			 					 		 				 		 	 	 	 	 	Print this 	 			Share 	 			Contact us 	 	 	 	 		 			Send to a friend 			 		 		 			 Sender's name Recipient's email address 					 					 				Your IP address will be logged 			 		 	 	 	 	 	 		 			Share 			 		 					 				Short link for this page: 				http://gu.com/p/3h5vq 			 							 				 					StumbleUpon 				 			 			 				 					reddit 				 			 			 				 					Tumblr 				 			 			 				 					Digg 				 			 			 				 					LinkedIn 				 			 			 				 					del.icio.us 				 			 			 				 					Facebook 				 			 			 				 					Twitter 				 			 		 	 	 	 		 			Contact us 			 		 		 		 						 					 Report errors or inaccuracies: userhelp@theguardian.com 				 				 											Letters for publication should be sent to: guardian.letters@theguardian.com 									 			 		 			 					If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com 				 				 					Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 0 20 3353 2000 				 				 					 							Advertising guide 						 						 							License/buy our content 						 					 			 	 				 	 		 										 	 			 	 		 											 	 	 	 	 	 					 					UK news 		 	 						 																		The Duchess of Cambridge ?															 								 																		Prince William ?															 								 																		Monarchy ?															 								 																		Prince George 															 				 Life and style 		 	 						 																		Parents and parenting ?															 								 																		Childbirth ?															 								 																		Pregnancy 															 				 More 			features 	 														 																More quizzes 									 	 		 							 		 	 						 								 					 																			More on this story 									 																	 																																																														 													 	 		 										 						 	 			 	 																										 		 	 Harry, prince of fun? Only if you're into naked billiards 																											 Michael Moran: The promise made to Prince George may backfire if he grows up to be a bookish nerd more interested in metaphysics than Mahiki 																									 																																																									 							 																				 														 															 																																																		 	 																										 														 		 		 		 	 	 			 	 														 		 	 Prince Harry promises fun for new nephew 													 												 																																													 							 																				 														 															 																																																		 	 																										 														 		 		 		 	 	 			 	 														 		 	 Prince George: how Prince Harry will make his life fun 													 												 																																													 							 																				 														 															 																																																		 	 																										 														 		 		 		 	 	 			 	 														 		 	 Royal baby overload? Here's some other news you may have missed 													 												 																																													 							 																				 														 															 																																			 																		Prince George 									 																								 							 																				 														 															 																																																														 													 	 		 										 						 	 			 	 																										 		 	 Royal couple choose name fit for a king 																											 The royal baby is to be called George Alexander Louis or His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge, for short 																									 																																																									 							 																				 														 															 																																																		 	 																										 														 		 		 		 	 	 			 	 														 		 	 What's in a name? 													 												 																																													 							 																				 														 															 																																																		 	 																										 														 		 		 		 	 	 			 	 														 		 	 Why the name had to be George 													 												 																																													 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																			 																		Video 									 																								 							 																				 														 															 																																																														 													 	 		 										 						 	 			 	 																										 		 	 Prince Harry: 'I will make sure George has fun' 																											 New uncle Prince Harry says the birth of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's baby, Prince George, is a fantastic addition to the royal family 																									 																																																									 							 																				 														 															 																																																		 	 																										 														 		 		 		 	 		 			 									 Royal baby is named George Alexander Louis 													 												 																																													 							 																				 														 															 																																																		 	 																										 														 		 		 		 	 		 			 									Waiting for the royal baby: a street-level view 													 												 																																													 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 																				 														 															 																																 							 											 						 		 	 		 										 					 		 					 		 		 		 							 																																						 	 				 							 			 						 	 Share 	 	 	 	 	 	 Tweet this Email 	 	 		 		 				 	 	 		 										 			 						 					 										 	 	 		 			 	 		 											 				 			 			 						 					 										 	 	 		 			 	On UK news 	 	 		 			 Most viewed Latest Last 24 hours 1.? 								NSA monitored calls of 35 world leaders after US official handed over contacts 2. 								Britain braces for stormy weather 3. 								How Educating Yorkshire helped me find my voice | Musharaf Asghar 4. 								Medical tourism generates millions for NHS and wider economy, finds study 5. 								Cesc F?bregas: 'Arsenal is in my heart. I'd love to go back one day' 					 					More most viewed 					 Last 24 hours 1.? In brief 2. Children's lake killer jailed for five years 3. Missing Amanda: man freed on bail 4. Police reopen investigation into 'suicide' at army base 5. In brief 				 				All today's stories 				 				 			 			 						 					 										 	 	 		 			 	 		 			On the Guardian today World news Dieudonn? arrested over Facebook post on Paris gunman Media Charlie Hebdo: first cover since terror attack depicts prophet Muhammad Sport How soccer saved the Seattle Seahawks Media Charlie Hebdo print run raised to 5m as copies in France sell out Money Too many choices, high costs and bureaucracy: British expats grade American healthcare system 'a pain in the arse' US news Measles outbreak spreads in US after unvaccinated woman visits Disneyland 				 			 	 		 										 			 						 					 										 				 			 		 		 	 		 										 			 						 					 										 	 	 		 			 	 		 											 	 	 		 			 			 		 				 			 	 		 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 		 										 			 						 					 					 				 			 	 	 	 		 	 License/buy our content 					 | 			 				 																																										 			 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 Privacy policy 					 | 			 				 																																										 			 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 Terms of service 					 | 			 				 																																										 			 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 US advertising 					 | 			 				 																																										 			 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 A - Z index 					 | 			 				 																																										 			 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 About us 					 			 		 	 ? 2015 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.