As the army of reporters, photographers, producers and camera crews camped outside the Lindo wing of St Mary's hospital in London this week attested, the world was quite interested in the arrival of His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge. But away from the cooing and betting, the joy and the exhaustion, there was rather a lot going on. Here's what you might have missed. ? Shrien Dewani, the British businessman accused of plotting the murder of his wife while they honeymooned in South Africa, should be extradited to face trial in Cape Town, a court in London ruled on Wednesday. The chief magistrate Howard Riddle decided that Dewani ought to be sent to South Africa, where he is wanted over the murder of his wife, Anni. The ruling at Westminster magistrates court was welcomed by Anni Dewani's family, who said their lives had been on hold while they waited for Dewani to answer questions in court about what happened during the couple's honeymoon in November 2010. ? Europe's worst rail crash so far this century claimed at least 78 lives and left 136 people injured when a train came off the line in the northern Spanish city of Santiago de Compostela and slammed into a concrete safety wall. Analysis of video of Wednesday's accident suggested the train was going faster than 85mph on a bend where drivers are supposed to slow down after a straight stretch that allows them to reach up to 125mph. A spokeswoman for the Galicia supreme court said the driver, who was only slightly injured, was under investigation. ? The first major legislative challenge to the National Security Agency's bulk collection of phone records from millions of Americans was defeated by a narrow margin on Wednesday, sending a clear signal to the Obama administration that congressional anger about the extent of domestic surveillance is growing. Despite a concerted lobbying effort by the White House and senior intelligence figures, the attempt to rein in the NSA failed by only 12 votes. The final vote was 205 in favour and 217 against, exposing deep restiveness in Congress over the wisdom and constitutionality of the bulk surveillance of Americans less than two months after the Guardian exposed it, thanks to leaks from the whistleblower Edward Snowden. Snowden himself remains in the Moscow airport transit zone, where he has been stranded since 23 June. Despite earlier suggestions that he would seek asylum in Latin America, it now appears he intends to stay in Russia in the long term. ? Pope Francis was greeted by enthusiastic crowds in Rio de Janeiro as he returned to his native continent for the first time as pontiff, and spoke out against growing inequality and the legalisation of drugs. The pope ? who is on a week-long visit to Brazil to mark World Youth Day ? used a trip to a Brazilian slum to denounce the culture of selfishness that is widening the gap between rich and poor. While visiting a rehabilitation centre, Francis also argued against liberalising drug use, saying: Rather it is necessary to confront the problems underlying the use of these drugs, by promoting greater justice, educating young people in the values that build up life in society, accompanying those in difficulty and giving them hope for the future. ? A senior Vatican official was appointed to replace the disgraced Scottish cardinal Keith O'Brien as archbishop of St Andrews and Edinburgh. Monsignor Leo Cushley, 52, a close and influential adviser to Pope Benedict and his successor Pope Francis, is based in Rome as head of the English-language section of the Vatican's civil service, functioning as a senior career diplomat for the Holy See. On Wednesday he was appointed to succeed O'Brien, who resigned in disgrace in February after the Observer revealed allegations of sexual impropriety. ? The Bank of England announced that Jane Austen will appear on ?10 notes from 2017 following an internet campaign and the subsequent public outcry over the lack of women on paper money ? apart from the Queen. Campaigners described the announcement as a brilliant day for women and a fantastic one for people power after a 35,000-name petition was presented to the Bank in the wake of the decision to put Sir Winston Churchill on ?5 notes in place of the prison reformer Elizabeth Fry. When it came to choosing a quote from the author ? whose work buzzes with waspish observations on the subject of money ? the bank chose to play it safe with a line from Pride and Prejudice: I declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading! ? The former SAS sniper Danny Nightingale avoided jail after being found guilty of illegally possessing a Glock pistol and more than 300 rounds of ammunition. On Thursday, the judge advocate Jeff Blackett, sitting at a court martial at Bulford camp, sentenced Nightingale to two years' military detention suspended for 12 months, telling him his stories about how the gun came to be in his bedroom in a house he shared with a friend and SAS colleague lacked credibility . But the judge said there were exceptional circumstances that allowed the court to suspend the sentence because of your exceptional character . Nightingale, 38, who has served with distinction in Iraq and Afghanistan, was convicted of the offences at a court martial in Wiltshire earlier this month. He was originally sentenced to 18 months in detention last year but freed after a high-profile campaign. ? The archbishop of Canterbury has warned Wonga, the UK's best-known payday lender, that the Church of England intends to compete it out of existence as part of its plans to expand credit unions as an alternative to such lenders. Unfortunately for Welby, it swiftly emerged that the C of E holds an indirect stake in Wonga. Asked by the BBC Radio 4 Today programme to rate his embarrassment on a scale of one to 10, he replied: About eight, adding: It shouldn't happen, it's very embarrassing, but these things do happen. We have to find out why and make sure it doesn't happen again. ? Chinese state media announced that the disgraced politician Bo Xilai is to stand trial for bribery, corruption and power abuses, bringing the end of the country's biggest scandal for decades one step closer. The 64-year-old's case will be heard in Jinan, in eastern Shandong province, probably within weeks. He has not been seen since last spring when the affair erupted before the Communist party's once-a-decade power transition, training an unwelcome spotlight on infighting and corruption among the political elite. Bo had once been seen as a possible candidate for China's most senior political body. But his evident ambition alienated peers and he was spectacularly toppled after allegations surfaced that his wife, Gu Kailai, had killed a British businessman, Neil Heywood. Gu later received a suspended death sentence for the murder. ? Britain's recovery picked up pace in the second quarter, official figures revealed, with GDP expanding by 0.6%. The chancellor, George Osborne, welcomed the fresh evidence that the economy has moved out of intensive care , adding: Britain is holding its nerve, we are sticking to our plan, and the British economy is on the mend. Although the shadow chancellor, Ed Balls, described the stronger growth as both welcome and long overdue , he said that living standards were still falling for most families. While millionaires have been given a huge tax cut, for everyone else life is getting harder with prices still rising much faster than wages, he said, adding that the US economy had grown almost three times as fast as the UK's since mid-2010. ? The UN's refugee chief warned that western countries such as the US and UK may be asked to take in tens of thousands of Syrian refugees because the exodus from the civil war is overwhelming countries in the region. Ant?nio Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, said the situation had already passed the point of a humanitarian crisis. If a resolution to the conflict was not found within months, he said, the UN would look to resettle tens of thousands of Syrian refugees in countries better able to afford to host them. He added: We are facing in the Middle East something that is more than a humanitarian crisis, more than a regional crisis; it is becoming a real threat to global peace and security. ? A 44-year-old man appeared in court on Wednesday charged with the murder of PC Keith Blakelock, who died during the Broadwater Farm riots in 1985. Nicholas Jacobs, of Hackney, east London, is accused of killing the 40-year-old officer, who was stabbed as he tried to protect firefighters tackling a blaze at a supermarket during the height of the unrest in Tottenham, north London. Blakelock and his colleague PC Richard Coombes were attacked on 6 October 1985 during the disorder, which was sparked by the death of Cynthia Jarrett who collapsed and died during a police raid on her home. ? A Ukrainian man was charged with murdering a Muslim pensioner and carrying out a series of explosions near mosques in the West Midlands on Monday. Pavlo Lapshyn, a postgraduate student from Dnipropetrovsk, is accused of murdering the 82-year-old grandfather Mohammed Saleem as he walked home from a mosque in Birmingham in April. Lapshyn is also charged with three further offences related to explosions in Walsall, Wolverhampton and Tipton in June and July. The 25-year-old denies the charges and appeared at the Old Bailey on Thursday via video link from Belmarsh prison in south-east London.