The baby which was once destined to get a kangaroo personally knitted by a sitting prime minister will now receive an arguably less sentimental gift from its subjects in Australia ? a zoo research project funded in his name. As the world celebrated the birth of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's son by lighting up iconic landmarks in blue and even sending the couple condoms, Kevin Rudd announced a bilby research project at Taronga Zoo would be given $10,000 in funding in the name of the future monarch as a gift. The baby will also receive the classic children's tale Possum Magic and a stuffed toy bilby from Australia. Photographs of former prime minister Julia Gillard knitting a kangaroo for the royal baby were famously published by Australian Women's Weekly just days before she was rolled by Rudd in a leadership spill. While Australia is also yet to announce a national show of celebration, the state of Queensland got in early to hand out medallions to babies who share the same birthday as the Prince of Cambridge and to light up various parts of the city of Brisbane in blue. The Australian Monarchist League AML gathered in Sydney for a champagne toast to the royal baby, who they hope will lead to a spike in membership after they gained thousands of new members in the wake of the royal wedding. The AML claims a 10,000 membership base with more than half of it made up of people younger than 40. Talk of a republic was not off-limits at the gathering, though all members agreed that Australia would continue to be a constitutional monarchy long enough to see the royal baby one day become the country's head of state. AML member Aimee Richards said she grew up in a family which were always fans of the royals and she found the entire family endearing, with Prince Philip earning a special mention. The young royals are very relatable and I think most young people in Australia support the monarchy, she said. Zac Miles agreed, saying the republic was not on the agenda any time soon. A lot of young people are fans of the monarchy and I really don't think we will become a republic soon, he said. It's never been more unpopular. The opposition leader, Tony Abbott, congratulated the royal couple along with his wife Margie in a statement. This would be the happiest day in their lives and all Australians share their joy, he said. While there will come a time to contemplate the constitutional duties that await the young prince, today we simply welcome a baby boy into the world and share the joy of this young family. I am sure that over the course of his life, the prince will, like the rest of his family, develop a deep affection for our country, as we already have for him.