Royal baby excitement in New York: 'What's a good name ? Sebastian? That sounds a little bit regal' | UK news | The Guardian Close Skip to main content sign in subscribe search jobs more from the guardian: jobs change edition: switch to the UK edition switch to the AU edition US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition The Guardian Winner of the Pulitzer prize home ? world ? UK europe americas asia middle east africa australia home US world selected opinion sports soccer tech arts lifestyle fashion business money travel environment browse all sections close The Duchess of Cambridge Royal baby excitement in New York: 'What's a good name ? Sebastian? That sounds a little bit regal' Sorry, your browser is unable to play this video. Please install Adobe Flash? and try again. Alternatively upgrade to a modern browser. Guardian US reporter Adam Gabbatt visits Greenwich Village to gauge whether New York is at fever pitch for William and Kate's impending arrival ? and finds that Britain's royal family has been popular since, ooh, at least last year's Olympics Adam Gabbatt, Source: Guardian US @adamgabbatt Monday 22 July 2013 14.37?EDT follow Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share via Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Google+ Share on WhatsApp Topics The Duchess of Cambridge New York Prince George related content popular The Guardian back to top home US world selected opinion sports soccer tech arts lifestyle fashion business money travel environment all sections close home US world selected UK selected europe americas asia middle east africa australia opinion sports soccer MLS NFL MLB NBA NHL soccer live scores tables competitions results fixtures clubs tech games arts movies tv & radio music books art & design stage classical lifestyle food health love & sex family women home & garden fashion business markets companies money travel USA europe UK environment development cities science media crosswords video World ? UK News ? The Duchess of Cambridge jobs subscribe all topics all contributors info and resources contact us feedback complaints & corrections terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop ? 2015 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All?rights?reserved.