Kate Middleton, the Duchess of Cambridge, has given birth to a baby boy. The unnamed son is third in line to the throne. Both mother and child are doing well, Kensington Palace said in a short statement. They will both remain in hospital overnight. The son of Prince William and Middleton weighed 8lbs 6oz 3.6kg . He was delivered at 4.24pm in the maternity wing of St Mary's hospital, London, by natural birth. The Duke of Cambridge was at the bedside. We could not be happier, William said in a statement. A Buckingham palace spokesman said the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh are delighted at the news . The prime minister, David Cameron, predicted William and Kate will make wonderful parents . Hundreds gathered outside the hospital to celebrate the news. The crowd sang: Happy birthday dear royal baby, in absence of a name. Later several hundred people were outside Buckingham Palace, where an ornate easel announced the birth. The birth of the royal baby had been followed around the world. In America rolling news channels devoted their coverage to the birth, while Australia prime minister Kevin Rudd sent his country's warmest regards to the new family. I proposed a very similar idea for our front page. Beneath The Guardian masthead there would have been a full-length photo of Prince William, sword drawn and in military dress, stood over a mock up of a new born baby. We wouldn't even have had to change the spelling. For any new mum, the first days at home bring all kinds of emotions and feelings ? excitement, exhaustion, joy, worry, protectiveness and love. We know many of our customers who are parents will have experienced this. So we have asked parents across the UK, in our ?Tesco Loves Baby? baby club, to share their best advice for life with a newborn. We?re collating the feedback through our Twitter @TescoBabyClub and publishing the best tweets in a beautiful baby book full of helpful hints and tips to send to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge. the only son of Prince Adolphus Frederick, the 1st Duke of Cambridge. Prince George of Cambridge was born in 1819 and refused to have an arranged marriage. He wed a commoner for love after falling for the actress Sarah Louisa Fairbrother, who was said to be a classic beauty and a graceful dancer. They married in 1847 when she was already the mother of two of his children and pregnant with his third. But the Duke did not seek the sovereign's approval and the marriage was never recognised, hence his children were not eligible to inherit royal titles. Miss Fairbrother was ostracised by the Royal Family and never given a title. Instead she became known by the nickname Mrs FitzGeorge and this surname was taken by George's offspring. Despite his marriage, George had a wandering eye and soon after he wed he took up with mistress Louisa Beauclerk, who remained his lover for more than 30 years. He went on to become the 2nd Duke of Cambridge after his father's death. The Duke was in the Army and served in the Crimean War. He was promoted to Commander-in-Chief in 1887 and an equestrian statue of him stands in the middle of London's Whitehall. He was said to have been a disciplinarian, who believed Army promotions should be based on social connections rather than ability. He died in 1904. His father, the 1st Duke of Cambridge - who lived from 1774 to 1850 - was never a Prince of Cambridge, but was given the title the Duke of Cambridge by his father George III in 1801 when he was 27. Is he the prettiest baby in the world?, one reporter asks, which is possibly the most ridiculous question I've ever heard. I'm sure that right across the country and indeed right across the commonwealth people will be celebrating and wishing the royal couple well, he said. It's been a remarkable few years for our royal family, a royal wedding that captured people's hearts, that extraordinary, magnificent jubilee, and now this royal birth. Frankie Moreno from west London, who sat with his mum outside the head, writes Sam Jones. I want to see the baby! he told his mum, Carlene. I want to see the baby! A passing policeman paused to help out. I'm sure you do, he told the toddler. A lot of people do. Carlene, like her son and her mother, was born at St Mary's so the duchess's first child. I'm so happy, she said. Babies bring such joy, don't they? But I'm a royalist anyway. As is her great aunt, who, at the age of 84, had been camped outside the Lindo wing since 2pm despite the heat. Maida Vale household. Despite the kindly policeman's intervention, Frankie would not be dissuaded. Mummy, I want to see the baby, he said. To which she wisely replied: He's not ready. When he's dressed. Sharon McEwen, from Jamaica said that she had spent the last four days coming and going to St Mary's. I'm very happy, she said before breaking into another verse of Celebration . Good evening! This is Adam Gabbatt taking over from Ben, who has set off into the London night in search of royal baby news and reaction. I've been monitoring all your favourite news channels who are extremely excited by all this, not least about the fact that the unnamed boy baby was delivered by normal birth . The cheers ? hesitant at first but soon full-throated ? erupted as dusk fell on a packed street outside St Mary's Paddington at 8.31pm. Initial disbelief that the long-awaited news was finally here evaporated almost instantaneously among the crowd, many of whom turned to their mobile phones for confirmation. Seconds later, the cry went up and spread among the well-wishers:? It's a boy! It's a boy! Few would greeted the news with more joy and excitement than Maria Scott, an ardent royalist from Newcastle who had been camped opposite the Lindo wing for days. I'm so, so happy! she shouted, struggling to make herself heard above the ecstatic celebrations. To her, the baby's gender was of no importance. Her fellow royal fans, who waved union flags ? and a teddy bear in an?RAF flight suit ? could scarcely contain their emotions either. Diana would have been so happy, cried one. She's a grandma! That notice giving details about the baby ? the third in line to the throne ? left St Mary's hospital in London by car for Buckingham Palace. It has been signed by the Queen's former gynaecologist Marcus Setchell, who led the medical team that delivered Kate's baby. The notice will be placed on an easel in the palace's forecourt just like the announcement of William's birth on June 21, 1982, a traditional element of theatre in marked contrast to the modern age of emails and Twitter. When she was mid way through her pregnancy, Kate told a soldier at a St Patrick's Day parade in Aldershot, Hampshire, that she did not know the sex of her baby, but that she would like a boy and the Duke of Cambridge a girl. Guardsman Lee Wheeler, 29, said: I was talking to her about the baby, of course. I asked her 'Do you know if it's a girl or boy?', and she said 'Not yet'. It's emerged that a slight change has been to the manner in which details of the birth will be announced. This is to insure that the announcement is made as quickly and simply as possible according to Palace officials. Here's the view of Peter Hunt: Traditionally, the announcement of a royal birth like this one has involved the placing of a proclamation on headed Buckingham Palace foolscap on an easel behind the railings in the palace's forecourt after the Queen and other members of both families have been informed. Weary print hacks, who have set up their makeshift camp inside the hospital cafe are beginning to wonder whether the management has deliberately killed the air con in a bid to oust them. The suffocating heat could, however, merely be down to the number of journalistic bodies and laptops present. Er... probably not, although at the New York Times they've found some figures that are not to be sniffed at. Britons are expected to spend more than ?243 million on merchandise, other goods and party food in July and August to celebrate the newborn, reports the Times, attributing that figure to the Center for Retail Research. The offer is only open for 24 hours following the baby's birth, so as soon as that baby's born, get clicking. We haven't really talked about the name yet, have we? I mean, OK, we have no idea what it might be, but as the BBC would put it that won't stop us . According to a global analysis of Twitter by Bloom Worldwide, which is a social media agency , Diana is the most popular choice of the world's tweeters. Those deemed to be high-risk are delivered in the delivery suite, but for low-risk births the midwives reign supreme in the Midwife-Led Unit. On the Princess Diana ward of the MLU, opened by William's late mother 18 years ago, today's shift leader Paula Cato is making sure new mum Justyna Dabrowska has everything she needs. Dabrowska, who is from Poland and has been in the UK for eight years, is delighted that her son Igor has arrived on the day the Duchess of Cambridge went into labour. My waters broke and I came into hospital yesterday, she explained. But he didn't want to come yet so I came in today. I think maybe he was waiting for the royal baby. She gave birth to Igor, her second child, at 5.23am, and heard the royal baby news a few hours later. I am pleased because I think everyone will remember this day, and the day my baby was born. Something important happened on this day. Dabrowska was grateful to be having her second child in the comfort of the Women's Hospital. I have a friend who just gave birth in Poland and she never wants to have a baby again. If you have friends in the hospital, then maybe you will have a nice birth, but if not then you will not. It is very different here, everyone can have a nice birth. And she seemed fairly relaxed about the fact that Kate was likely to be getting more luxurious treatment than she had received. It is different; she is an important person, and she should have a better room, better everything, she said. My baby is important to me; Kate's baby is important to her. I am happy to be here. Callum is Eyers's first child and, after 27 hours of no sleep, he is still reeling, looking with doting wonder at the creature his partner has brought into the world. I'm just in shock, he says, eyes sparkling. I'm overwhelmed with joy, I can't explain it; it was just one of the best experiences I've ever had. Eyers was there for the duration of the birth - albeit with frequent trips to the bathroom. I was sick four times, he admits. As soon as he came out I was just crying. Peers, who had a natural birth, seems a little more together: She needs to get a move on, I want my royal penny, she jokes, wondering aloud whether the royal baby might be called Callum too. The royal vehicle drove through the gates and out of the view of members of the public, eager to catch a glimpse of the monarch. Scores of people surged to the gates, screaming the Queen! , while others reached into their pockets to grab their camera phones in an effort to catch Her Majesty's fleeting appearance. The Queen's arrival represented the first real movement at the palace for some hours, as crowds packed five deep in anticipation of a royal announcement. ITV has rounded up a collection of ?wacky royal baby collectibles?, including a mug celebrating ? with admirable confidence ???William and Kate?s first born son in 2013?, a bobble-head doll of Prince William that looks more like Val Kilmer, and, my own personal favourite, the ?Lady Princess Kate Royal Baby Pancake Surreal Painting Portrait Art Lacey? ? that?s on eBay for $10 and currently only has one watcher, so you might be in luck if you get clicking now. The Prince demands an heir... and what he wants, he gets! Sienna Wainwright had one phenomenal night with Rafe Lombardi before he cast her out of his bed. But six weeks later their world changed... No longer just a billionaire, Rafe is revealed as the Prince of Montvelatte. And Sienna is pregnant - with his twins! Prince Nico Cavelli would never normally waste his time visiting the prison cell of a tourist. Except this particular alleged criminal, Lily Morgan, has stolen something very personal to him - his son, heir to the Montebianco throne! Cally Greenway was hoping to secure the job of restoring some valuable paintings, until they're sold to the Prince of Montez! Then Cally gets a royal summons - His Majesty has a job for her... as his mistress: she is to be biddable, pleasurable...and pregnant? Let us treat you like a queen - relax and enjoy three glamorous, passionate stories about privileged royal life, love affairs...and scandalous pregnancies! I met little Jacob Booth, who was born at 9.21am to Amy Muscatelli, 24, and her partner Curtis Booth. I thought Jacob was smiling for the camera until his mum helpfully told me that he probably just had wind. Muscatelli didn't know if Jacob would share the same birthday as the royal offspring, but thought there was a pretty good chance. To be honest, once she's in that pain I don't think she'll be waiting around. She was told by her partner about the duchess's labour at about 7am - helpfully in the middle of a contraction. Asked what she said, she replied: You can't really print it in a paper, but it was the pain talking. It meant 'I don't really care right now'. Sam Jones has just arrived at St Mary's to take the baton from Peter Walker, who, Sam can exclusively report, has now wandered off to consume a delicious late lunch consisting of some kind of wrap ? Sam forgot to ask what the filling was ? after having been there since half past eight this morning. And he did a 120-mile cycle ride this weekend. Anyway, Sam reports that precious little is going on outside the Lindo Wing, but under cross-examination admits that that is not entirely true: The hospital cafe is doing a roaring trade and some of the arch-royalists should really be looking to secure the services of PR agents, such is the media demand for their views. It's often noted that Americans appear love the British royal family with greater fervour than royalists in the UK. It probably has something to do with the fact that Americans' attitude to the likes of William and Kate comes unencumbered by awkward questions about whether they are a waste of taxpayers' money or not. The US networks have therefore been preparing for this day for months, and they could barely disguise their delight when the news came just in time for the morning shows. NBC seems to be by far the most excited, which may or may not have anything to do with the fact that the new president of its news division, Deborah Turness, is a Brit.?Today anchor Nathalie Morales has been in London for the past week, waiting to front the show's live coverage from a pitch the size of a postage stamp outside St Mary's Hospital. NBC has been making full use of its British special correspondent Ben Fogle, presumably because he looks and sounds like an aristocrat; helpfully he was able to offer first-hand insight of St Mary's hospital today as his sister also went into labour this morning and will be having her baby there. Of the major US newspaper websites, the New York Times, Washington Post and Los Angeles Times opt for modest placings of the royal baby story on their homepages. Curiously, National Public Radio didn't mention it at all on its morning news bulletins, despite leading its website with the story. Maev Kennedy is at Bucklebury's babywatch central: the Old Boot Inn, where landlord John Haley has known the couple for years - and got invited to their wedding. The Telegraph and ITV are currently in residence, the Times has just been there, and Maev finds a harassed Mr Haley on the phone to Australia saying: This is not a good time, this is really not a good time ? when he is not phoning around to pull in extra staff. Mirren Gidda writes: Over at the Conversation website, Angela Davis of the University of Warwick has written a short history of giving birth. Before the 18th century, midwifery was a woman's domain, she writes, but by the end of the century women were opting for male surgeon-apothecaries to help them. ?By the 1790s between a third and a half of all deliveries in England are estimated to have been attended by medical practitioners.? Traditional female customs were replaced by male surgeons' scientific knowledge. By the 1900s, caesarean section deliveries had increased, making childbirth a more medical, hospital-based affair. Discoveries of anti-bacterial drugs, antibiotics and improvements in blood transfusions saw hospital deliveries become a far safer alternative to home birth, and by the 20th century there was a growing momentum to give birth in a hospital. Not everyone is pleased with the Guardian's decision to live blog the wait for the royal baby. Not even everyone at the Guardian. I asked Graham Smith of Republic, the pressure group campaigning for the abolition of the monarchy, to explain his objections. First, he said the royal family's media strategy was partly about reinforcing the myth that the monarchy is a harmless fantasy, a bit of magic that brings in tourists and provides occasions for cheer during otherwise difficult times . He said: Each of these myths is not true, he said: The monarchy is not powerless, doesn't bring in tourists and fails to unite the country. What those myths do, however, is protect an institution that wilfully abuses its position to protect its own interests. It also acts as cover for the profoundly undemocratic nature of our political system. It's not just Prince Charles's lobbying and personal veto over laws that's the problem but also the crown powers used and exploited by our politicians. So when these events are covered by the media in the manner of today's reporting journalists are - whether wittingly or not - reinforcing the royal PR message and protecting what is in fact a deeply political institution, steeped in power and vested interest. The challenge for journalists is to look past the royal spin and present these stories in the cold hard light of what's really going on. A simple rule of thumb is: Treat the royal spin-machine the same way you would the Tory or Labour spin machine's: with a dose of healthy scepticism and some searching analysis. When the Guardian covers a story like this, even with a dose of irreverence and tongue-in-cheek attitude, you only serve to reinforce the myths and the general view of the monarchy as an eccentric bit of fun. Smith said there were a number of serious questions raised by the royal birth that we had not attempted to answer or ask: ? Shouldn?t every child be born equal in political status and political rights? ? How can that be when one child is born above all others, destined for high office not because of merit or popular choice but because of their parents? ? Doesn?t this royal child have the same rights as the rest of us? The right to choose their own lifestyle, career, religion and beliefs? Is it right that before this child is born the media, politicians and the royal family are determining the baby?s entire future? ? Is this an intelligent way to decide our future head of state? Isn?t it time we chose our highest representatives by merit and popular choice, not by birthright and parentage? I just had a chat with a charming Dutch family, in town from The Hague, who have?already spent two hours looking around. They note that a royal fuss is quite familiar to them - their new king, Willem-Alexander, was installed this year. Around 8,500 babies are born in the LWH in Toxteth every year, and around nine babies have already been born in the Liverpool hospital since midnight. I've just been told that there are three caesareans booked in for today. The first one has already helped bring little George into the world - quite a royal name that one, a taste of things to come? I have just been speaking to Jeanette Ratcliffe, 29 and Paul McCarthy, 30, who have just welcomed Milly, four hours, into the world. Despite neither of them having slept for more than 24 hours they were happy for me to have a sit down and coo at their new daughter. When the couple found out Jeanette was pregnant, they were hoping their child might arrive at the same time as William and Kate's and are now urging the duchess on. I did feel under pressure to hold on to her until Kate went into labour, said Ratclife. As soon as we told our family this morning the first thing they said was that Kate had also gone into labour, so she has stole our thunder a bit. But the couple were delighted their daughter might share the same birthday as the heir to the throne. It just makes it a bit more special, said McCarthy. It will be a nice story to tell her and we will have the silver coin to show her when she is older. She will also have a little bib with princess on it - a little present to mums at the hospital giving birth today. It is fair to say that Ratcliffe, who was induced over 24 hours, was not thinking about the Duchess of Cambridge when she finally went in labour. I was just thinking, give me my baby now - I've been waiting such a long time. Taking a peek at the wrinkly, pink bundle beside her, she added: I still can't believe she is here, I just keep staring at her. She is so perfect.