We're going to wrap up our live blog coverage for the day. Here's a summary of where things stand: ? President Mohamed Morsi delivered a defiant televised speech at midnight Tuesday declaring his willingness to give his life to defend governmental legitimacy. He did not speak directly to an army ultimatum for him to cut a political deal by Wednesday afternoon, but earlier he dismissed the ultimatum in a tweet. The speech appeared?to set not to divert?the Morsi government and the Muslim Brotherhood on from a collision course with the military and opposition. ? An official death toll Tuesday evening from Cairo clashes put the number killed at seven, but that figure was expected to rise, perhaps substantially. Hundreds were injured as opposition forces and Muslim Brotherhood and Morsi supporters battled with live gunfire and other weapons. Main sites of conflict were Cairo University and Kitkat Square in Giza.? ? A draft of the army road map for the political future called for the suspension of the constitution, the dissolution of parliament and new presidential elections. ? For a third straight day dueling protests materialized across the country, with numbers in Tahrir Square swelling after what at the start looked to be a quieter day for demonstrations. If the price for safeguarding legitimacy is my blood, then I am prepared to sacrifice my blood for the cause of safety and legitimacy of this homeland. Do not be fooled. Do not fall into the trap. Do not abandon this legitimacy. I am the guardian of this legitimacy. Morsi continues speaking. He so far has blamed the violence on remnants of the former regime, claimed the mantle of the revolution and vowed to give his life to defend a legitimate government. Live video with English translation is here. The army statement Monday gave Morsi until about 4pm Wednesday to cut a political deal that would fulfill the 'will of the people.' There does not appear to be much chance for such a breakthrough; in any case Morsi rejected the ultimatum in his historic tweet about an hour ago. Morsi says he's not clinging to power, that he's not known for that. But he was elected by the people in fair elections, a constitution was drafted and a government is in place, he says. It would be wrong to throw out the democratic precedent, he says. After days of silence, the president responds to the army ultimatum and the millions in the streets ... in a tweet: Reflecting deep anxiety among Egypt's millions of Christians since last year's election victories Mursi and the Brotherhood, the head of the Coptic Church said on Twitter: A salute, in tribute and glorification, to the trio that makes Egypt great: the people ... the army ... and youth. Long live my country, free and strong. How impressive are the Egyptian people, as they reclaim the revolution that was stolen from them, in a civilised and highly elegant manner with the idea of tamarud revolt . I pray for all the people of Egypt. Posters of?Mohamed Morsi?can be seen on every other Egyptian street this week, usually with the eyes gouged out and his face covered with a giant cross. But outside the Rabaa al-Adaweya mosque in Nasr City, in east Cairo, pictures of the president remain in rather better shape. It is here that about 100,000 Morsi supporters have gathered in recent days, a reminder that however many millions have?called for his downfall?since Sunday, he retains a significant core support. I'm here to defend my vote and to defend a revolution I was part of, says Shaima Abdel-Hamid, a teacher at the rally. We chose a president and now they want to get rid of him when he's dealing with 30 years of corruption. And they want to get rid of him after only a year. For many their backing of Morsi goes beyond support for his democratic legitimacy. The battle for Morsi is also a battle for the concept of political Islam, or the idea that the state should be run according to Islamist principles. In its one year of rule, the Muslim Brotherhood has squandered much of the public sympathy it had garnered over 80 years of existence and 60 years of military persecution. The same people who took to the streets in January 2011, protesting the police violence that often targeted the Brotherhood, were out today to celebrate the Islamists' demise.?But now the clock is being reset to 2011, and Egyptians are faced with the ridiculous choice between a military junta or a theocracy-flavored-dictatorship. It isn?t a choice we should have to make: Egypt deserves better. But we have failed to develop the better alternative. ...?But we have to remind ourselves that the enemy of my enemy is not my friend. The army communiqu? speaks doom, not salvation. ? Sisi, a career soldier, was head of military intelligence and the youngest member of the 19-strong Supreme Council of the Armed Forces. But despite coming from the heart of the security establishment he had a reputation for being sympathetic to the Muslim Brotherhood ? the reason, many Egyptians assumed, Morsi chose him for the job. Sisi is said to be a religious man, and his wife, unusually, wears the full niqab face veil. ?[...] Sisi, born in 1954, was a relative youngster in a military dominated by elderly officers with extensive privileges and a traditional view of their place in Egyptian political life. Field Marshal Hussein Tantawi, who he replaced, was in his late 70s. Sisi, promoted two ranks, reportedly shook like a leaf when Morsi told him to behave like a man and take the job, while Tantawi waited in the next room. There are multiple reports of an armed clash ? a massive gunfight, in one description ? in Ketkat Square h/t @ElFoulio . The sources told Reuters the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces SCAF was still discussing details of the plan, intended to resolve a political crisis that has brought millions of protesters into the streets. The roadmap could be changed based on political developments and consultations. [...] The sources said the military intended to install an interim council, composed mainly of civilians from different political groups and experienced technocrats, to run the country until an amended constitution was drafted within months. That would be followed by a new presidential election, but parliamentary polls would be delayed until strict conditions for selecting candidates were in force, they said. The armed forces planned to open talks with the main opposition National Salvation Front and other political, religious and youth organizations once a deadline set for Mursi to reach a power-sharing agreement expires on Wednesday. On Saturday, Salah al-Din Hassan, 37-year-old reporter with independent news website?Shaab Masr? Egyptian People , was killed by a homemade?bomb?thrown by an unidentified person while covering a demonstration against Morsi in the city of Port Said, the website reported. The bomb was hurled at protesters in Shuhada Square; Hassan picked it up to throw it away but it exploded, killing him and injuring 16 others, according to?news reports. Ayda Sobh, Hassan's mother, blamed Morsi's supporters for hurling the bomb, according to the?reports. [...] Also today, the Dutch embassy in Cairo?said?in a statement that a 22-year-old Dutch woman was repatriated after being attacked Friday evening in Tahrir Square. According to Egyptian news reports, the woman was a television reporter who was?raped?by unidentified men as she tried to?cover?the beginnings of the protests. A state hospital issued a statement on Sunday saying the woman was hospitalized for two days and had to undergo surgery. Egyptian authorities are investigating, according to the Dutch embassy's statement. At the same time, the officials stopped short of saying Morsy should step down immediately. We are saying to him, 'Figure out a way to go for new elections,' one senior official said. That may be the only way that this confrontation can be resolved. In multiple conversations with Morsy and his aides, the officials said, U.S. Ambassador to Egypt Anne Patterson and other senior State Department officials have explained that the demands the Egyptian people are making on the street are similar to the ones both Washington and allies have been urging Egypt to take for weeks. We are trying to get President Morsy to appoint a new prime minister, a new Cabinet, and get rid of the prosecutor general, one senior official said. This is the kind of outreach he needs to do to demonstrate to the opposition that he is governing all Egyptians. So far he hasn't done anything to show that. Here's a summary of the main events so far today: ? Pressure is growing on President Morsi to quit 24 hours before a deadline set by the army to resolve the crisis is due to expire. Two of Morsi's spokesmen and his foreign minister are reported to have resigned. Morsi's office said intervention by the army would represent a step backwards. ? The government and the opposition appear to be preparing to negotiate to find a solution to the crisis. The Egyptian cabinet nominated the prime minister Hesham Qandil to lead discussions. The opposition put forward Mohammed ElBaradei. Morsi is to have held talks with Qandil and the head of the army, Abdel Fattah al-Sisi. The first is a factional conflict within the ruling elite ... [The] fragmented elite has been joined by higher echelons of the conservative Muslim Brotherhood movement, much to the chagrin of Mubarak-era loyalists whose antipathy towards the Islamists runs deep. The Brotherhood's leaders have done their best to maintain the autocratic nature of Egyptian politics and keep revolutionary demands at bay, but they have a sparked a popular backlash as a result. Rival elements of the state are now seizing their chance to piggy-back on that grassroots anger and engineer a reshuffle at the top. So it is that among those jostling for Morsi's departure we find the?felool, remnants of the Mubarak regime seeking to reclaim authority and preserve their privileges. But there is a another, more critical struggle unfolding too, between those fighting to destroy the old authoritarian system that for decades has denied them political and economic agency, that plunders Egypt's public wealth in the name of private profiteers and arrests, tortures and kills those daring to defy it ? and those seeking to protect it ... Human Rights Watch has urged Egypt's security forces to play an impartial role in protecting lives amid fears of more violence as the army's deadline approaches. With the prospect of more protests ahead, the potential for street battles and further violence is high, it said. In a statement it added: Security forces should plan to deploy to locations where lives and security are at great risk, while complying with international standards of policing. The numbers aren't yet huge, but then again Tahrir is only just filling up. As in Tahrir, people are waving Egyptian flags and carrying pictures of the president. The difference is that the photos here don't have large crosses daubed across them. The rally was interesting for two reasons. One: it's there. Previously the pro-Morsi crowds were limited to one site in east Cairo, where 100,000 have gathered in recent days. But now less organised rallies are springing up across Egypt in a show of Islamist force. Two: the rhetoric was much more aggressive. In previous trips to pro-Morsi events recently, protesters stuck to a very peaceful, disciplined script: they're there to protect democracy. But following the army's announcement yesterday, and after a series of attacks on Islamist offices in the past week, it seems some have snapped. It's fine, says Mohamed Tariq, a 16-year-old student carrying a drum emblazoned with the word 'Egypt'. If he goes down, we'll bring down the president they elect. He added: It's either an Islamist state, or we get martyred. Myself, I hate Morsi, said Badr Badradin, an advertising agent who feels Morsi hasn't done enough to promote Islamist rule. But it's not just about Morsi. It's about the future of political Islam. He just happens to be its face right now. Many anti-Morsi protesters see him as a betrayal of the revolution ? but those here are living in a parallel universe. Sisi said he would stand with the people. But those in Tahrir are not with the people, Abdel-Maksoud claimed. They represent the old regime. He added: If they remove Morsi, I hope it does not go that way, but there will be a war on the streets. Comments like that pick up on what analyst Khalil al-Anani told me in my piece yesterday ? that Morsi's departure may radicalise scores of young Islamists towards. But speaking on the phone to me just now, historian Khaled Fahmy, head of history at the American University in Cairo, said he didn't think civil war was on the cards. There's a possibility of Islamists giving up on democracy, he said. But they already tried [violence] during the 1990s. It did not achieve their ends, and they realised this. Morsi supporters, formed into militias, take to take to streets to protest against what they would call a counter-revolutionary? army coup. But that is likely to be far too leisurely for Morsi?s critics. Another variant is the idea of holding a referendum on whether to told a new presidential race. The ultra-conservative Salafi Noor party flanking the Brotherhood from the right and protesting that it is not doing enough to promote Sharia law supports this. Morsi, taking heed of the army?s 48-hour warning about its own ?road map,? invites leaders of opposition forces to join a power-sharing unity cabinet to promote national reconciliation and review the constitution that was passed last year. Success is not guaranteed. The former air force general Ahmed Shafiq, now exiled in the UAE and seen as the candidate par excellence of the Mubarak era counter- revolutionaries, may harbour ambitions too after being narrowly beaten by Morsi last summer. Welcome to Middle East Live. Follow live updates as the clock ticks down on President Mohamed Morsi after the army issued a 48-hour ultimatum to resolve Egypt's political crisis. Here's a roundup of the latest developments: ? Barack Obama has urged President Mohamed Morsi to respond to mass opposition demonstrations and said the political crisis could only be resolved by talks, Reuters reports. The White House issued an account of a telephone call that Obama made to Morsi. President Obama encouraged President Morsi to take steps to show that he is responsive to their concerns, and underscored that the current crisis can only be resolved through a political process, it said. The White House statement added: Democracy is about more than elections. It is also about ensuring that the voices of all Egyptians are heard and represented by their government, including the many Egyptians demonstrating throughout the country. ? Morsi's aides have indicated Egypt's president would not give in to the threat of a military coup just hours after the army gave him two days to placate the millions who have taken to the streets calling for his departure. An aide said: Obviously we feel this is a military coup. But the conviction within the presidency is that [the coup] won't be able to move forward without American approval. ? Follow how a hectic Monday unfolded in?yesterday's Middle East Live. These were the main events of the day: Could we have waited for parliamentary elections and used the dismal performance of the presidency over the last year to vote the Brotherhood out of office? It is accused of fixing the electoral districts in a way that privileges the party. We now know that a large proportion of the judiciary who will oversee elections are Brotherhood supporters. And in the tug of war between the presidency and the constitutional court over the election law, no one is sure how often the elections will be postponed. ? Anti-harassment groups have recorded a new wave of sexual assaults by groups of men targeting women during anti-government protests in Cairo's Tahrir Square.?Operation Anti-Sexual Harassment/Assault, which patrols the square, said a record 46 assaults were recorded on Sunday in Tahrir. ? GuardianWitness is still inviting readers in Egypt to share their stories.?Please help us document what's happening by sharing your eyewitness accounts, photos and videos. ? Rebels in the northern province of Aleppo have threatened to seize two Shia Muslim villages that back President Bashar al-Assad unless they surrendered to the opposition, Reuters reports.?Activists say both Nubl and Zahra villages had been reinforced by Assad's allies in the increasingly sectarian war, among them fighters from Iran and Lebanon's powerful Shia guerrilla group, Hezbollah. ? Iraq, Jordan and Turkey have restricted border crossings for Syrian refugees, leaving tens of thousands of people dangerously stranded, Human Rights Watch has warned.?Only Lebanon, which has limited control over its own borders and is now hosting over half a million refugees, had remained open to refugees, it said.? ? A Syrian Catholic priest has been beheaded by rebels at a monastery in the northern Syria, the BBC reports citing the Vatican.??Father Francois Murad, 49, was beheaded on 23 June when militants attacked the convent where he was staying.