Royal Baby's life expectancy may be longer than peers - video | UK news | The Guardian Close Skip to main content sign in subscribe search jobs more from the guardian: jobs change edition: switch to the UK edition switch to the AU edition US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition The Guardian Winner of the Pulitzer prize home ? world ? UK europe americas asia middle east africa australia home US world selected opinion sports soccer tech arts lifestyle fashion business money travel environment browse all sections close Monarchy Datablog How does royal life expectancy compare with British life expectancy? - video Sorry, your browser is unable to play this video. Please install Adobe Flash? and try again. Alternatively upgrade to a modern browser. Babies born in Britain in 2013 can expect to live until they are 81 according to UN statistics. But royal blood may be made of stronger stuff. The Guardian took a sample of 20 of the prince's ancestors and found that their life expectancy surpassed that of Britons born in the same year. Watch our stop-motion animation to find out how much Mona Chalabi and Hannah Waldram, theguardian.com Tuesday 23 July 2013 10.22?EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share via Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Google+ Share on WhatsApp Topics Monarchy The Duchess of Cambridge Prince George related content popular The Guardian back to top home US world selected opinion sports soccer tech arts lifestyle fashion business money travel environment all sections close home US world selected UK selected europe americas asia middle east africa australia opinion sports soccer MLS NFL MLB NBA NHL soccer live scores tables competitions results fixtures clubs tech games arts movies tv & radio music books art & design stage classical lifestyle food health love & sex family women home & garden fashion business markets companies money travel USA europe UK environment development cities science media crosswords video World ? UK News ? Monarchy jobs subscribe all topics all contributors info and resources contact us feedback complaints & corrections terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop ? 2015 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All?rights?reserved.