The royal baby is to be delivered by a top medical team headed by the Queen's gynaecologist Marcus Setchell, who delayed his retirement after being asked by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge to oversee the birth. Setchell, 69, was being assisted by Alan Farthing, 50, an expert in keyhole surgery who is gynaecologist to the royal household. Farthing first came to public prominence when his fiancee, the BBC journalist and Crimewatch presenter Jill Dando, 37, was shot dead on her doorstep in April 1999 in Fulham, west London. He has since married and is a father. Setchell, who has held the royal position for two decades, helped save the lives of Sophie, Countess of Wessex in 2003 when she was eight months pregnant, and her daughter Lady Louise. The countess was taken to hospital after complaining of severe internal pains. She was dangerously ill from blood loss and an emergency caesarean was performed. Lady Louise was born weighing 4lbs 9oz and transferred to St George's hospital for specialist care. Sophie remained at Frimley Park hospital in Surrey, spending six days apart from her daughter. Lady Louise was the first grandchild of the Queen to be born on the NHS. Two years previously, the countess had been airlifted to hospital after suffering a potentially life-threatening ectopic pregnancy. Setchell also oversaw the birth of the son of Sophie and Prince Edward, James, Viscount Severn, as well as the Duchess of Cornwall's 2007 hysterectomy. He was also on hand when, in the early stages of her pregnancy, the Duchess of Cambridge was admitted to the King Edward VII hospital suffering from hyperemesis gravidarum, acute morning sickness. Farthing, who has been a doctor for 26 years, has a private Harley Street practice and works as a consultant at Queen Charlotte's hospital in Shepherd's Bush and St Mary's, Paddington, where the duchess was giving birth in the private Lindo wing. A specialist in fertility sparing surgery, keyhole surgery, gynaecological cancers and endometriosis, this will be his first high-profile royal birth. He also works privately at the King Edward VII hospital in Marylebone, and the Wellington hospital in north London. He married fellow doctor Janet Stowell in 2008 and the couple have a young son.