With perfect timing for a summer feel-good story, Prince George has arrived. How will you teach your students about their future king? We've got some great ideas exploring the pomp and politics to save in your resource bank for next term for the citizenship and history classroom and beyond ? including an updated family tree and a very amusing song. Royal baby named Prince George ? video The royal couple have announced their newborn son is to be called George Alexander Louis. He will be known as His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge. What's in a name? ? data blog Get the stats on George. How many baby Georges were born last year and where are they most likely to live? What impact do royal names have on how parents name their babies? Fascinating charts and graphs to pour over. Royal Family Tree ? graphic Fully up-to-date graphic depiction of the royal line of ascension from 1603 James 1 to 2013 Prince George . Royal baby quiz ? interactive Test your knowledge of the news event of the century. The Royal baby in pictures ? newspaper front pages Find out how newspapers around the world marked the birth of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's baby boy in London by checking out this gallery. Royal births: from protracted, painful and public to 21st-century labour Future heirs used to arrive in palaces now they are born at St Mary's Paddington. Fascinating history here. Birth of future monarch animates the lunacy of royal watching Opinion piece from Zoe Williams, great fuel for secondary school debate ? comments make interesting reading too. The future of the monarchy This PowerPoint uses the cunning hook of the Kate and William's wedding to trigger a classroom debate on the subject of constitutional reform and the future of the monarchy. Easily adapted to take in the new baby. Also see the associated lesson plan. Topic guide: monarchy in the 21st century A succinct intro into complex issues questioning whether an unelected head can be justified in 21st century Britain by Debating Matters. How did Henry VIII get up in the morning? Fascinating document extracts from the National Archives to help understand the personal monarchy which characterises any study of the Tudors plus to compare with today. We get to find out who could actually touch the royal person in those days. Lessons on nobility History teacher Polly Lankaster's lesson plan and associated PowerPoint on how Henry VII controlled the nobility which asks was he anti-noble? The official Royal website Read all about Prince George straight from one's horse's mouth as it were. Campaign to encourage the media and public to think about the serious questions a royal birth raises about Britain and our political system. Shouldn't every child be born equal? Is it right that one child should be born above all others? Lots of food for thought here including a plea to report the most cringeworthy, tasteless and sycophantic royal baby-related programming. Royal baby sparks retail frenzy Let's just say it's an exciting time for Asda, but everyone's jumping on this baby bandwagon. Some of the best/worst ads here. Horrible histories ? the 4 Georges born 2 Rule This nugget from CBBC's archive will keep you giggling all summer. There will soon be five Georges ? time for a remake? This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Looking for your next role? Take a look at Guardian jobs for schools for thousands of the latest teaching, leadership and support jobs.