George Zimmerman, acquitted of murder by a Florida jury, will never again be free to live a normal life, according to family and friends who spoke of their fears for his safety. Aside from a wrongful death suit from Trayvon Martin's family that will likely see the neigbourhood watch leader back in court to defend himself, Zimmerman will feel the shadow of the case hanging over him forever. Clearly he's a free man in the eyes of the court, but he's going to be looking around his shoulder for the rest of his life, said Robert Zimmerman Jr, George's brother, who has acted as the family's spokesman since the shooting. There are factions, there are groups, there are people that would want to take the law into their own hands or be vigilantes in some sense if they think that justice was not served. They won't respect a verdict no matter how it was reached and they will always present a threat to George and his family. He has always feared for his safety, we have always feared for his safety and our safety as a family, he added in an interview with CNN. Meanwhile, Saturday's not guilty verdict will almost certainly not see an end to Zimmerman's legal battles. Mark O'Mara, Zimmerman's lead attorney, has promised to fight and defeat the wrongful death suit that will be presented in a civil court on some unspecified future date. It carries a lower burden of proof than the criminal charge the Sanford jury rejected. Until then, O'Mara said, Zimmerman will probably remain in hiding, possibly outside Florida, as he and his wife Shellie have been ever since he was freed on bail in June 2012. He wears a bulletproof vest, has not worked since the shooting and is relying on the generosity of family and friends since being effectively bankrupted by the case, O'Mara has said. Shellie Zimmerman still faces a perjury trial for allegedly lying at her husband's bail hearing last summer over the state of the couple's finances. There also remains a possibility that Zimmerman could face another criminal trial over the Martin shooting, with the Department of Justice already known to have been contacted by civil rights groups over the possibility of pursuing a federal hate crime charge against Zimmerman. It follows complaints by some African American leaders over the decision by prosecutors in the trial not to pursue a line that would have tried to paint Zimmerman as someone who targeted Martin due to the teenager's race. The state's attorney avoided the issue of race, the defence team denied the issue of race ? yet racial profiling was obvious from the very beginning, said Jesse Jackson, the civil rights leader who led peaceful protests in Sanford last year when Zimmerman was originally released without charge. Because of this conclusion you look at all-white people doing the offence and defence, you look at the jury without a black person or without a man on it, instead of a jury of Trayvon's peers. The Department of Justice must intervene to take this case to another layer. Others, however, have blamed black leadership for the failure to deliver justice to Martin's family. The call for an inquiry should have been made before or during the trial, said Dr Vibert White, a human rights activist and professor at the University of Central Florida who has lectured on the case. It shows their ineptness and lack of creativity in developing a strategy to deal with the plague of bigotry and racism that exists in Florida and elsewhere. If you go just by the results, there's no clear evidence that Trayvon Martin's civil rights were violated. More importantly, he added, jurors sent a subtle message with their verdict. We live in a state where seven out of 10 people carry guns ? there's a culture that believes African Americans, Latinos, Haitians, are thugs, and that [people] need to be protected. I believe many on the jury thought overwhelmingly that Zimmerman was performing an act of social good.