CAIRO ??Tens of thousands of Islamists streamed across a Nile River bridge toward Cairo?s Tahrir Square on Friday, threatening a showdown moments after the top leader of the Muslim Brotherhood defiantly spoke before a cheering crowd of supporters, vowing to reinstate ousted President Mohammed Morsi and end military rule. His fiery speech, with a military helicopter hovering overhead, came soon after army troops fired on a pro-Morsi rally and one protester was killed. The dramatic appearance by the Brotherhood?s General Guide Mohammed Badie on stage before tens of thousands of supporters in Cairo was his first in public since the president?s ouster. It injected a further vehemence into the campaign by Morsi?s largely Islamist supporters, who have denounced the military?s removal of Egypt?s first freely elected president as a coup that they will not allow to stand. Morsi ?is my president and your president and the president of all Egyptians,? Badie proclaimed, thrusting his arms in the air. ?God make Morsi victorious and bring him back to the palace,? he said in the speech, which was partially aired on state TV. ?We are his soldiers we defend him with our lives.? Badie, a figure revered among the Brotherhood?s followers, addressed the military, demanding they abide by their pledge of loyalty to the president, calling it a matter of the military?s honor. ?Your leader is Morsi ? Return to the people of Egypt,? he said. ?Your bullets are not to be fired on your sons and your own people, you are dearer than that.? Badie?s speech appeared aimed at not only firing up his supporters but also at trying to win support within the military against army chief Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi, the defense minister who announced the president?s removal Wednesday night. Security officials had reported that Badie was taken into custody soon after the military removed Morsi on Wednesday night. Just before Badie?s appearance, the Brotherhood?s political party said on its webpage that he had ?been released.? But on stage, Badie denied he was ever arrested. There was no immediate explanation by security officials. Soon after the speech, Brotherhood backers streamed across a bridge over the Nile River toward the state TV building and Tahrir Square, where hundreds of thousands celebrating Morsi?s fall were massed. There was some stone throwing between the two sides. Badie?s appearance came three after the military opened fire on pro-Morsi protesters marching on the Republican Guard headquarters in Cairo. The shooting threatened to further escalate Egypt?s confrontation by hiking Islamists? fury at the military. Already there are fears of an armed Islamist backlash, and before dawn gunmen in the Sinai attacked military facilities, killing one soldier. The army shooting came when hundreds of protesters marched on the Republican Guard building in Cairo, where Morsi was staying at the time of his ouster Wednesday night before being taken into military custody at an unknown location. The crowd approached a barbed wire barrier where troops were standing guard around the building. When one person hung a sign of Morsi on the barrier, the troops tore it down and told the crowd to stay back. A protester put up a second sign, and the soldiers opened fire, according to an Associated Press photographer. Several bloodied protesters fell to the ground. One had a gaping, bleeding wound in the back of his head. Other protesters carried the body into a nearby building and covered his head with a blanket, declaring him dead, according to AP Television News footage. Witnesses speaking in the footage said men in plainclothes fire the lethal shots. Health Ministry official Khaled el-Khatib confirmed that one protester was killed Friday and a number wounded, but he did not know the exact number. The Brotherhood?s political arm, the Freedom and Justice Party reported five killed, but there was no immediate confirmation. Many of those injured had the pockmark wounds typical of birdshot. The BBC?s Middle East editor, Jeremy Bowen, was hit by birdshot in the head as he covered the clashes. ?Am fine,? he reported in a tweet. Protesters pelted the line of troops with stones, and the soldiers responded with volleys of tear gas. The clashes appeared to ease with the start of midafternoon prayers. Britain?s Foreign Secretary William Hague said he was ?very concerned? by the reports of violence. In a Twitter message, he wrote: ?Hope calm heads will prevail, vital to avoid escalation.? Morsi?s Muslim Brotherhood called for Friday?s protests, which took place at several sites around Cairo and in other cities. Officials of the group strongly urged their followers to keep the rallies peaceful. But the troops? use of deadly force is likely to fuel calls for violence among harder-line groups that gained considerable freedom to operate during Morsi?s year in office. The first major Islamic militant attack came before dawn Friday in the tumultuous Sinai Peninsula, killing at least one soldier. Masked assailants launched a coordinated attack with rockets, rocket-propelled grenades and anti-aircraft guns on the airport in the northern Sinai city of el-Arish, where military aircraft are located, as well as a security forces camp in Rafah on the border with Gaza and five other military and police posts, sparking nearly four hours of clashes. One of military?s top commanders, Gen. Ahmed Wasfi arrived at el-Arish on Friday to lead operations there as the army declared a ?war on terrorism? in Sinai. A crowd of Morsi supporters tried to storm the governor?s office in the city but were dispersed by security forces. The night of Morsi?s ouster, jihadi groups held a rally in el-Arish attended by hundreds, vowing to fight. ?War council, war council,? a speaker shouted, according to online video of the rally. ?No peacefulness after today.? Islamic militants hold a powerful sway in the lawless and chaotic northern Sinai. They are heavily armed with weapons smuggled from Libya and have links with militants in the neighboring Gaza Strip, run by Hamas. After the attack, Egypt indefinitely closed its border crossing into Gaza, sending 200 Palestinians back into the territory, said Gen. Sami Metwali, director of Rafah passage. In Cairo, a crowd of tens of thousands of Morsi supporters filled much of a broad boulevard outside a Cairo mosque several blocks away from the Republican Guard headquarters, vowing to remain in place until Morsi is restored. The protesters railed against what they called the return of the regime of autocrat Hosni Mubarak, ousted in early 2011. ?The old regime has come back ? worse than before,? said Ismail Abdel-Mohsen, an 18-year old student among the crowds outside the Rabia al-Adawiya Mosque. He dismissed the new interim head of state sworn in a day earlier, senior judge Adly Mansour, as ?the military puppet.? ?After sunset, President Morsi will be back in the palace,? they chanted. ?The people want God?s law. Islamic, Islamic, whether the army likes it or not.? The military forced Morsi out Wednesday after millions of Egyptians turned out in four days of protests demanding his removal and saying he had squandered his electoral mandate by putting power in the hands of his own Muslim Brotherhood and other, harder-line Islamists. In the 48 hours since, the military has moved against the Brotherhood?s senior leadership, putting Morsi under detention and arresting the group?s supreme leader and a string of other figures. The Brotherhood has said it will not work with the new military-backed leadership. Morsi supporters say the military has wrecked Egypt?s democracy by carrying out a coup against an elected president. They accuse Mubarak loyalists and liberal and secular opposition parties of turning to the army for help because they lost at the polls to Islamists. But many supporters have equally seen it as a conspiracy against Islam. Many at Friday?s protests held copies of the Quran in the air, and much of the crowd had the long beards of ultraconservative men or encompassing black robes and veils worn by women, leaving only the eyes visible. One protester shouted that the sheik of Al-Azhar ? Egypt?s top Muslim cleric who backed the military?s move ? was ?an agent of the Christians? ? reflecting a sentiment that the Christian minority was behind Morsi?s ouster. The protesters set up ?self-defense? teams, with men staffing checkpoints touting sticks and home-made body shields. There was no significant presence of military forces near the protests. In southern Egypt, Islamists attacked the main church in the city of Qena on Friday. In the town of Dabaiya near the city of Luxor, a mob torched houses of Christians, sending dozens of Christians seeking shelter in a police station. Clashes broke out Friday in at least two cities in the Nile Delta between pro- and anti-Morsi demonstrators. The night before, the military spokesman issued a statement urging all protesters to remain peaceful. In a message to Morsi?s opponents, Col. Ahmed Mohammed Ali warned against ?gloating,? vengeance or attacks on Brotherhood offices, saying there must not be an ?endless cycle of revenge.? The military has a ?strong will to ensure national reconciliation, constructive justice and tolerance,? he wrote in an official Facebook posting. He said the army and security forces will not take ?any exceptional or arbitrary measures? against any political group. The first steps for creating a post-Morsi government were taken Thursday, when Mansour, the 67-year-old chief justice of the Supreme Constitutional Court, was sworn in by fellow judges as interim president. A Cabinet of technocrats is to be formed to run the country for an interim period until new elections can be held ? though officials have not said how long that will be. In the meantime, the Islamist-written constitution has been suspended. On Friday, Mansour dissolved the country?s interim parliament ? the upper house of the legislature, which was overwhelmingly dominated by Islamists and Morsi allies. The Shura Council, which normally does not legislate, held legislative powers under Morsi?s presidency because the lower house had been dissolved. State Tv reported Mansour?s constitutional decree dissolving the body but did not give further details. Mansour also named the head of General Intelligence, Rafaat Shehata, as his security adviser. Badie and el-Shater were widely believed by the opposition to be the real power in Egypt during Morsi?s term. The National Salvation Front, the top opposition group during Morsi?s presidency and a key member of the coalition that worked with the military in his removal, has proposed one of its top leaders, Mohammed ElBaradei, as interim prime minister. That post will hold strong powers since Mansour?s presidency is considered symbolic. ElBaradei, a Nobel Peace laureate who once headed the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency, is considered Egypt?s top reform advocate. Also Friday, the African Union suspended Egypt?s membership in the group because of the military?s action against Morsi. AU Commission head Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma said in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, that the removal of Morsi falls under the AU doctrine on unconstitutional changes of government. The AU usually suspends the membership of countries where the military ousts an elected government. ROBIN YOUNG, HOST: From NPR and WBUR Boston, I'm Robin Young. JEREMY HOBSON, HOST: I'm Jeremy Hobson. It's HERE AND NOW. And we are following events in Egypt where there were deadly clashes today. Government troops fired on pro-Islamist demonstrators who gathered in support of deposed Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi. Tens of thousands of the former president's supporters are calling it a day of resistance, demanding that Morsi be returned to power as Egypt's legitimately elected president. YOUNG: They're also objecting to the military-led crackdown on Morsi's colleagues in the Muslim Brotherhood. The head of the Muslim Brotherhood spoke to supporters after being released from custody today. He called for protests to continue. GENERAL GUIDE MOHAMMED BADIE: Through Translation We will never give up or let down our President Morsi. We will sacrifice ourselves, our souls and our blood for President Morsi. Morsi's our president. YOUNG: Also today, Islamic militants launched a coordinated attack in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula, killing at least one Egyptian soldier. Borzou Daragahi is Middle East correspondent for the Financial Times. He's in Cairo. Borzou, what's your sense of what's happening there? BORZOU DARAGAHI: I think there's a real sense of trepidation and anxiety about what's going to happen next. There was this moment of elation when the government of President Mohamed Morsi was kicked out. A lot of people were very happy and celebrating. But now comes the hangover; the day of reckoning, so to speak, where those Islamists who supported President Mohamed Morsi, are - basically, they're seeking their due. And there are some very spooky elements about what's been happening here. You know, for example five pro-Islamist television stations have been shut down. So we're not able to get a lot of information about what's going on around the country because the only stations that are remaining are mostly the ones that are supportive of the military and supportive of the previous opposition, supportive of this coup d'etat or overthrow or whatever you want to call it. And so there's a real atmosphere of uncertainty and suspicion that's clouding everything. Right now, we're looking at protests in Cairo, two parts of Cairo. Apache helicopters are hovering over one of those protest scenes. People are opening up corridors in the crowds to let ambulances through to get the injured out. There are protests north of the country, where at least a dozen people have been shot in confrontations between Islamist protesters and the security forces. And there's also clashes between Muslims and Christians in the south of the country, in Luxor. And this just shows how volatile and explosive this move was to oust an internationally recognized legitimate president. YOUNG: Well, yesterday the interim president, when he was sworn in, urged the anti-Morsi protesters to stay in the streets. And today, the National Salvation Front, that's the coalition of opposition groups led by Mohamed ElBaradei, also called for the anti-Morsi protesters to come out today in support of this coup. Isn't that dangerous? Why are these leaders urging the anti-Morsi protesters to stay in the street knowing that the supporters of Morsi were taking to the street today? What's the sense of those two groups clashing? DARAGAHI: It's a power vacuum, to some extent, and there is a battle for legitimacy, a battle for who is the actual power in the country. And so, one way to show legitimacy is to bring your supporters out into the streets in a public demonstration. Now that the elected president has been deposed, and that kind of electoral legitimacy has been wiped away, the only way to show who's the biggest kid on the block is to bring your people out into the street. YOUNG: Is there an attempt to keep them separate? DARAGAHI: At this point, not a lot of anti-Morsi protesters have come out yet. But, you know, it's a hot day, and the weather is just starting to cool off for the evening. So, we'll see what happens. Usually the real violence in these protests in Cairo takes place at night. So I think a lot of people are dreading what's going to happen. A lot of people are - it's a Friday anyway, so not a lot of businesses are open, but I think a lot of people aren't going to go out partying today. YOUNG: Borzou, we've been asking this daily. What are you hearing from those secularists and Islamists who are very much against President Morsi, felt that he made too much of a power grab? But now they're seeing this overthrow by the military and then this roundup of over 200 members of the Muslim Brotherhood, some without charges. Are they having second thoughts? DARAGAHI: You know, sadly, a lot of them are cheering this on. You have basically people who are liberals but not really democrats. And there's a real triumphalist mood among a lot of people in the liberal and secular and leftist camp. But there are some, you know, voices within that camp who are saying, you know, I don't agree with what's happening here. It should be said, however, that in a way, the Morsi government is to some extent getting the - the Morsi supporters are getting a taste of their own medicine. They were silent when this kind of thing happened over the last two and a half years to liberals and leftists and activists when those people were on the other end of the guns and shot. There was the Maspero killings of October 2011, where a bunch of Christians protesting were killed. And I don't remember the Brotherhood raising a big hue and cry about that, when other people were the victim. Now, they're the victims, and to some extent what's happening here is a result of their failure to reform these institutions, such as the army and the Interior Ministry. YOUNG: Borzou Daragahi, Middle East correspondent for the Financial Times, there in Cairo. Borzou, thanks as always. DARAGAHI: It's been a pleasure. Transcript provided by NPR, Copyright NPR.