Today we woke up to news of four men in Murang'a county who were involved in very unnatural acts with a donkey. For the last one month our TV screens and social Speaking of the cow; next came in the cow from Kiambu on NTV ,then KTN followed suit with the chicken story that has made chicken the butt of all jokes.I hoped that the Standard Group's report on the goat was the final nail in that coffin but nooooo, Kiss TV's Dennis Okari reports that 4 men gang-raped a donkey tied to a tree metres away from a Church kesha in Kamahuhia!Not even the praise and worship songs could curb their unnatural desires. To start a business, you should first have a solid understanding of the particular type of business you intend to start, a written business plan, and enough funds to cover your costs until the business becomes profitable. Jumping into a business without some level of effective pre-planning can result in financial headache for small business owners. Start with your current training and skill set. Many entrepreneurs have used their experience and training from prior employment to offer specialized services or products. Alternatively, some colleges offer training programs, which include general business classes and specialized courses in certain fields. Some franchises also offer training before or during the start-up of a business. A good understanding of the economics of the business you are starting will increase your chances of success. start, you will have to develop a business plan. considered to be a hobby that occasionally produce income, but it is not necessary to create a business plan because the focus is more on your hobby. But if you are starting a regular business, you will need to create a comprehensive plan as to how, when, and where you intend to start the business and who you want involved. small businesses. For example, failing to identify who will do what functions and how much each partner will be allowed to withdraw on a regular basis are details business. If you need assistance drafting a business plan, contact your local community college or small business administration; they will usually offer courses on how to write an effective business plan. budgeting. Your business plan should include an accurate budget for start-up costs and subsequent operational expenses. Do not manipulate or falsify these numbers. Know what your expenses are so that you can effectively plan and budget. Depending on the type of business and where you are located, you may qualify for private and state funding sources through minority grants, small business loans, or economic development incentive packages. If you do not have access to external funding sources, take the time to visit with an accountant regarding financial planning options and strategies. State laws enable you to create a legal entity, which is a separate identity from you or any partners, under which you can transact business without the risk of exposing your assets to any personal liability that might arise out of your business affairs. Types of business entities include sole proprietorships, corporations . you minimize taxes, avoid legal problems, and reduce your exposure to personal liability. Setting up the wrong type of structure for your needs or failing to file the proper state or federal documents can affect your tax status or limited liability status. Before starting a business, it is often a good idea to speak to an accountant and a business lawyer so that you understand the tax and legal issues involved. If you are a business startup looking for financing, you protected. A corporate or business attorney can also review your business plan to see which type of business entity is best for your situation and long-term financial goals. Thousands and thousands of new businesses start up every year, and many of them do not even make it through their first year. There are many reasons that businesses fail all of the time, and they can range from bad products to bad management. Some people that have been successful in business do not always become successful on their first try, sometimes you have to live and learn and a failed business venture will help you learn what not to do if you plan on starting another business. If it is your first time business venture then you should take a good look at failed and successful business models, this will help you understand some of the things that work and other things that do not work. Lack of Experience Lack of experience at running a business is one of the big reasons many new start-ups fail within the first year or two. Just because you do not have a lot of experience does not automatically mean that your business will be a failure, but knowing this is a big reason for business failure should motivate you to learn the ins and outs before jumping in head first. There are plenty of places you can learn what needs to be done, you can research online and find advice and stories that will help you gain some insight into running a business. Another thing you can do is ask someone you may know that runs their own business, pick their brains for a while and allow them to be a mentor to you. This will increase your chances of making your business a success after the first year and for many years into the future. Knowledge is key, so learn everything you can before making the jump, and don?t let lack of experience keep you down! Bad Management Bad management is another of the main reasons that many new businesses fail, some can say this is due to lack of experience and that could be true in many cases, but not all of them. There have been many people that have started new businesses that had plenty of experience but because of bad management choices the business fell flat on their faces. Bad management can take many forms; one of these could be bad management of finances which can cause a business to go downhill really fast. This is one of the reasons it is a good idea to hire an accountant to help manage the financial part of any business, someone that knows what they are doing can help eliminate the business failing because of bad money management. Another example of bad management is hiring people to run the business for you and not paying attention at all to what is going on. Some people think they can just start a business and hire people to let them run it right from the get go, but In most cases this is just setting yourself up for failure. If you do hire people to manage and help run the business you should still always know what is going on, plus you need to trust the people you have running your business. Monitoring every aspect of your business will ensure that things go well and it is the only way to do it as a startup. Lack of Planning Sometimes people have all of the right intentions when starting a business, but many times people get anxious and excited and start the business right up with little or no planning. Having a business plan laid out before you launch is key, and this is extremely important if you are looking to get some help funding the business at the start up. When you are trying to get a loan to launch your company almost all banks want to see your business plan, so this is the first thing anyone should do when starting a new business endeavor. Lack of planning can hurt in many other ways as well, another example is not having enough products to meet the possible demand you may encounter. Thinking everything through beforehand is a must, as well as knowing what you need to start off successfully. There are many organizations that can assist you in starting a business for the first time, and seeking out one of these types of organizations to help you get going can be a big help and will definitely make sure you have planned everything out so your business has a great chance of being a success. Location Location can be extremely important when you are starting a new business, you could have an amazing business idea and a great building but if your location is somewhere that people will not find it easily it could turn out bad for you. It is good to find a place where many people will see your place of business so you will get walk ins and people coming by to check out what you have to offer. Sometimes even a struggling business can pull it together and survive if they have the right location, and on the other hand, you could have a great store or other type of business that is amazing but if it is not in a good location the business will most likely fail no matter how good it is. When starting your business try to find a location where there is potential for a lot of people to see it, this will help more than you can imagine and will be the key to your success. Starting a Business for the Wrong Reasons There are many people that start their businesses because what they offer is something they are very passionate about, and then there are also many people that will start up any business that they think can make them a lot of money. If you plan on starting a business make sure you are starting something that you have a strong interest in, because if you are not going into something you love your chances for success are very low. If you are not passionate about what you do other people will see that and in many cases customers will find another company that does the same thing but is run by someone who really cares and knows all about their products and services. People that only want to make money with a business tend to only bother learning a little about what they are selling, but in order to be successful you need to know EVERYTHING about what you are doing, and there will be many questions from potential customers that you need to be able to answer. If you cant answer the questions or do not have the experience people will just go somewhere else. So if you are starting a new company make sure you love what you will be doing, otherwise you will most likely fail in under a year. force in Syria could cost America billions, and that care must be taken to preserve a functioning state . miles away. swim of the length of frigid Lake Ontario, a feat never before accomplished. overturned vehicle last week, police say. Africa 'held back' by land disputes Africa's economic growth is held back by confusion over who owns vast swathes of agricultural land, according to a World Bank report. Iraqi jails, which freed hundreds of inmates, including senior leaders of the militant group. Ten hurt as NY plane's wheel fails hospital - as a plane's nose wheel collapses when it lands at New York's LaGuardia Airport. leaking into the sea. clashes, as supporters of ousted President Mohammed Morsi continue to hold a sit-in. Baron Cohen 'leaves Mercury biopic' over 'creative differences'. trip as head of the Catholic Church, but Brazilian police also clash with anti-government protesters. China that killed at least 94 people, with rescuers digging through rubble for survivors. A call by France's health minister for local authorities to ban smoking in parks and on beaches sparks a lively debate. Third Point LLC, the hedge fund headed by activist investor Daniel Loeb, agrees to reduce its stake in There are job interview questions that strike terror into the hearts of job-seekers, and then there are interview questions that are merely depressing. Certain interview questions are depressing because they cause a job-seeker to ask himself The person could have constructed any number of thoughtful and provocative questions, and all s/he could come up with was this lame-ass leftover from 1963? There are interview questions that convey so loudly The person who is interviewing you today has neither intellectual curiosity nor spark that a switched-on job seeker, having heard the question, may not even want the job anymore. One of those done-to-death and pointless interview questions is the one that goes With all the talented candidates around, why should we hire you? It's a horrible question, because well-brought-up people don't praise themselves, and well-brought-up people don't ask or expect other people to praise themselves, either. Now, we're not castigating everybody who still asks this question, because some companies require it. That's not anything they should be proud of, but old traditions die hard. For some reason, the business world, which should be all about innovation and speed and experimentation, tends to develop a protocol once a set of interview questions, for instance and stick with it way past the point of usefulness. We can do so much better, so easily! Why not ask an interview question like From what you've learned about our business so far, what do you think we should be focusing our energy on, more than we are? That question requires a job-seeker to rise up and see the business from altitude, and to show his or her brain working. We need to ask more eyes- open questions like this, and fewer boilerplate questions borrowed from the Mad Men era. If we can step out of the frame that has deluded us for years into thinking The employer is mighty, and I, a poor ordinary job-seeker, am an ant then we can answer the interview question Why should we hire you? as a human being rather than as a servile drone. Here's how. MANAGER: So, that's interesting, you went directly from the Navy Seals into the Rockettes chorus line. Good, good. Apart from your Grammy and the climbing Mount Everest thing, is there anything else you want to tell me about your background? JOB-SEEKER: Not really - I'm interested in what you guys are doing, here at Acme Explosvies. I have a lot of questions to ask you at the proper time about the business, and about your marketing plans specifically. MANAGER: Sure, we'll get to that. But let me ask you - with so many talented people on the job market, why should we hire you? JOB-SEEKER: Oh God, no - really? Oh well. That's a great question. I'm glad you brought it up. That is a big decision that you are going to make, and my take is that I don't envy you that decision process, and I'm not sure you should hire me. MANAGER: Why not? JOB-SEEKER: You know the company, and you know the role. You know yourself and your management style. I know me, but you know almost everything about what's needed here given what you're facing in the marketplace. And most importantly, you've met all the candidates for the job. I've only met me. So I don't know that you should hire me, but I know one thing. MANAGER: What's that? JOB-SEEKER: I know that when I find the job that is right for me and vice versa, I'll know it, and my hiring manager will know it, and everything will work out just the way it should. That could be this job, or it could be a different one. I have total confidence in me, you and the universe to get the right answer. You don't have to grovel on a job interview, ever. You don't have to be evasive. You can say flat out, I don't know that you should hire me - there may be someone in your interview roster who's a better fit for the job. You can tell the truth, politely and forthrightly, on a job interview, and I hope that you will start to do that. Using our alternative answer to a job interview question that should have been retired long ago is one way to start reclaiming your power. The more your mojo grows on your job search, the more appealing you will be to employers -- the ones who get you and therefore deserve you, which is to say the only employers we care about -- and the more you'll appreciate what you bring to the conversation. If you're going to get all dressed up, go on a job interview and spend time with people you don't know who also aren't paying you, don't you at least deserve to show up at the interview as yourself? J.K. Rowling reveals she published a new crime novel titled The Cuckoo?s Calling under a pseudonym. publish The Cuckoo?s Calling in April of this year. as well as a statement. ?I had hoped to keep this has been such a liberating experience,? said Rowling. ?It has been wonderful to publish without hype or different name.? The author?s biography is as hilarious as this news that?s been kept secret from us for several months. It reads, of the RMP. He left the military in 2003 and has been working since then in the civilian security industry. The returned to the civilian world. ?Robert Galbraith? is a pseudonym.? currently has a nearly 5-star rating. Says the book?s official synopsis found on Amazon: A brilliant debut mystery in a classic vein: supermodel?s suicide. investigator. Strike is down to one client, and creditors are calling. He has also just broken up office. amazing story: His sister, thelegendary supermodel famously fell to her death a few months earlier. The police ruled it a suicide, but John refuses to believe that. The case plunges Strike into the world of multimillionaire beauties, rock-star boyfriends, and desperate designers, and it introduces him to every variety of pleasure, enticement, seduction, and delusion known to man. You may think you know detectives, but you?ve never met one quite like Strike. You may think you know about the wealthy and famous, but you?ve never seen them under an investigation like this. Triggers . The drafting technique takes advantage of do. What does that mean? Well, in Nascar as well as have to deal with less air friction. As the first car spends more energy pushing through the air, it creates density for the next car to push through. This means achieve the same results. Here is how you use the slip stream to your advantage. The idea is simple. You see your competitors somehow land an article on big sites and get huge coverage. Instead of feeling sad about it, you can use this to your website as well. post on a huge site, you learn two things: 1. This particular site accepts guest posts. 2. The kind of topics they are looking for in their guest posts. idea for a guest post you they will be happy to publish. they would be happy to do so again. There is simply less friction. Just make sure it is not actually the same value to their site. look at their posts that are guest posts. Make a list of ideas those ideas. Mention the similar posts already post will be just as good and maybe even better. Link to other bloggers in your post. That?s really all there is to it. One of the biggest mistakes you can make is never linking out. Link out to others in your posts and they will take notice of you, most of them will tweet about your post at the very least. Some of them will even link back to you. This is a easy and free way to get traffic. Just don?t forget about your readers reach over 1 billion people, target exactly the demographic you wish and have direct communication with your customers? consider advertising on Facebook. It?s a great opportunity for a company to make online sales, get a following around the brand, create a platform where customers can discuss the products and, when done successfully, let people spread the word about your qualities. ?A large part of companies? potential customers are there. Therefore, in my opinion, all companies should their customers ... No other advertising channel, at least where you can communicate, can compete with those numbers.? When creating a Facebook business strategy, it?s important to think through what you want to achieve. Is your goal to make ads and drive traffic to your website ? perhaps a web shop where visitors can make a purchase ? or do you want to drive traffic to a Facebook fan page where visitors can ?like? what you do?.Many businesses benefit from both, so perhaps a combination is the best choice. Just make sure your primary reasons for being on Facebook is clear before you start working. business on Facebook. You make traditional external- website ads and when someone clicks through, he or sign-up can be made. companies. And when you do it, you?ll get the results right away. Just compare how much you spend on Facebook ads to the revenue and you?ll know whether or not you need to tweak your campaign in any way. However, when doing external-website ads you may of. Don?t forget that ?liking things? is the backbone of this entire network. to see the offer. After that, they can click out to the web page to make a purchase. By doing your advertising in these three steps, you can combine brand making with sales. However, a lot of businesses? main reason for being of online sales. It might be a physical shop, say, a restaurant, a clothing store or any company that?s on Facebook primarily to raise brand awareness. In that case, ads directly to the website might not be the best choice. Instead you want people to like your Facebook fan page where you can talk to them, run contests, arrange polls or other activities your customers want to engage in. about you to their friends, which in the end can be profitable for any business. TIP: To succeed in small-business marketing on Facebook you don?t need to run a modern IT company. One benefit with Internet marketing for small business is that it allows you to compete with larger corporations. If you offer a niche product or service, you might even have a competitive advantage. A large business will not have time to focus in depth on a single niche. BLOGGING 101: Top 10 Tips for Beginner Bloggers The Tips You Need to Successfully Start a Blog Starting a blog can seem overwhelming, but in truth, it's one of the simplest ways to join the online community. Follow these tips to ensure your blog is positioned for success. 1. Define Your Goals Before you start a new blog, it's essential that you define your goals for it. Your blog has a greater chance of success if you know from the beginning what you hope to accomplish with it. Are you trying to establish yourself as an expert in your field? Are you trying to promote your business? Are you simply blogging for fun and to share your ideas and opinions? Your short and long term goals for your blog are dependent on the reason why you're starting your blog. Think ahead to what you'd like to gain from your blog in six months, one year and three years. Then design, write and market your blog to meet those goals. 2. Know Your Audience Your blog's design and content should reflect the expectations of your audience. For example, if your intended audience is teenagers, the design and content would be quite different than a blog targeted to corporate professionals. Your audience will have inherent expectations for your blog. Don't confuse them but rather meet and exceed those expectations to gain reader loyalty. 3. Be Consistent Your blog is a brand. Just like popular brands such as Coke or Nike, your blog represents a specific message and image to your audience, which is your brand. Your blog's design and content should consistently communicate your blog's overall brand image and message. Being consistent allows you to meet your audience's expectations and create a secure place for them to visit again and again. That consistency will be rewarded with reader loyalty. 4. Be Persistent A busy blog is a useful blog. Blogs that are not updated frequently are perceived by their audiences as static web pages. The usefulness of blogs comes from their timeliness. While it's important not to publish meaningless posts else you may bore your audience, it's essential that you update your blog frequently. The best way to keep readers coming back is to always have something new and meaningful for them to see. 5. Be Inviting One of the most unique aspects of blogging is its social impact. Therefore, it's essential that your blog welcomes readers and invites them to join a two- way conversation. Ask your readers to leave comments by posing questions than respond to comments from your readers. Doing so will show your readers that you value them, and it will keep the conversation going. Continue the conversation by leaving comments on other blogs inviting new readers to visit your blog for more lively discussions. Your blog's success is partially dependent on your readers' loyalties to it. Make sure they understand how much you appreciate them by involving them and recognizing them through meaningful two-way conversation. 6. Be Visible Much of your blog's success relies on your efforts outside your blog. Those efforts include finding like- minded bloggers and commenting on their blogs, participating in social bookmarking through sites such as Digg and StumbleUpon , and joining social networking sites such as Facebook and LinkedIn. Blogging is not a demonstration of, if you build it, they will come. Instead, developing a successful blog requires hard work by creating compelling content on your blog as well as working outside of your blog to promote it and develop a community around it. 7. Take Risks Beginner bloggers are often afraid of the new blogging tools and features available to them. Don't be afraid to take risks and try new things on your blog. From adding a new plug-in to holding your first blog contest, it's important that you keep your blog fresh by implementing changes that will enhance your blog. Alternatively, don't fall prey to every new bell and whistle that becomes available for your blog. Instead, review each potential enhancement in terms of how it will help you reach your goals for your blog and how your audience will respond to it. 8. Ask for Help Even the most experienced bloggers understand the blogosphere is an ever-changing place and no one knows everything there is to know about blogging. Most importantly, bloggers are part of a close-knit community, and the majority of bloggers understand that everyone is a beginner at some point. In fact, bloggers are some of the most approachable and helpful people you can find. Don't be afraid to reach out to fellow bloggers for help. Remember, the success of the blogosphere relies on networking, and most bloggers are always willing to expand their networks regardless of whether you're a beginner blogger or seasoned pro. 9. Keep Learning It seems like everyday there are new tools available to bloggers. The Internet changes quickly, and the blogosphere is not an exception to that rule. As you develop your blog, take the time to research new tools and features, and keep an eye on the latest news from the blogosphere. You never know when a new tool will roll out that can make your life easier or enhance your readers' experiences on your blog. 10. Be Yourself Remember, your blog is an extension of you and your brand, and your loyal readers will keep coming back to hear what you have to say. Inject your personality into your blog and adapt a consistent tone for your posts. Determine whether your blog and brand will be more effective with a corporate tone, a youthful tone or a snarky tone. Then stay consistent with that tone in all your blog communications. People don't read blogs simply to get the news. They could read a newspaper for news reports. Instead, people read blogs to get bloggers' opinions on the news, the world, life and more. Don't blog like a reporter. Blog like you're having a conversation with each of your readers. Blog from your heart. blogging 101 by Kandaya Phone for the African continent, called Huawei 4Afrika. This phone is essentially a slightly modified version of GSM 850 / 900 / 1800 / 1900 HSDPA 900 / 2100 HSDPA 850 / 1700 / 1900 / 2100 2013, January Available. Released 2013, January 124.5 x 63.7 x 10.5 mm 4.90 x 2.51 x 0.41 in 130 g 4.59 oz IPS LCD capacitive touchscreen, 16M colors 480 x 800 pixels, 4.0 inches ~233 ppi pixel density Yes, up to 4 fingers Vibration, MP3, WAV ringtones 3.5mm jack microSD, up to 32 GB 4 GB, 512 MB RAM HSDPA, 21 Mbps; HSUPA, 5.76 Mbps Yes, v2.1 with A2DP, EDR Yes, microUSB v2.0 5 MP, 2592?1944 pixels, autofocus, LED flash Geo-tagging, touch focus, face detection Yes, 720p@30fps Accelerometer, proximity SMS threaded view , MMS, Email, Push Email Yes, with A-GPS support and GLONASS Blue, red, black, white - MP3/WAV/WMA/eAAC+ player Li-Ion 1950 mAh battery Up to 460 h 2G / Up to 470 h 3G Up to 8 h 2G / Up to 10 h 30 min 3G Some revolutions end in triumph, others in tyranny. It's a walk on the edge of a blade between glory and the guillotine. And BlackBerry has had its share of revolutions - the most recent ones being the rebranding and the OS gone touch-only two iterations ago. 2G Network GSM 850 / 900 / 1800 / 1900 - all versions CDMA 800 / 1900 - SQN100-2, SQN100-4 3G Network HSDPA 850 / 1900 / 2100 - SQN100-1 HSDPA 850 / 900 / 1900 / 2100 - SQN100-2, SQN100-3, SQN100-4 HSDPA 850 / 1700 / 1900 / 2100 - SQN100-5 4G Network LTE 700 / 850 / 1700 / 1900 - SQN100-1, SQN100-5 LTE 700 / 1700 - SQN100-2 LTE 800 / 900 / 1800 / 2600 - SQN100-3 LTE 1900 - SQN100-4 SIM 2013, January Available. Released 2013, April BODY BLACKBERRY Q10 SPECS 119.6 x 66.8 x 10.4 mm 4.71 x 2.63 x 0.41 in 139 g 4.90 oz Type Super AMOLED capacitive touchscreen, 16M colors Size 720 x 720 pixels, 3.1 inches ~328 ppi pixel density Yes Alert types Vibration, MP3 ringtones Yes 3.5mm jack Yes Card slot microSD, up to 64 GB 16 GB, 2 GB RAM Yes Yes EV-DO Rev. A, up to 3.1 Mbps, HSPA, LTE market dependent Wi-Fi 802.11 a/b/g/n, dual band, Wi-Fi hotspot Yes, v4.0 with A2DP NFC Yes USB Yes, microUSB v2.0 CAMERA BLACKBERRY Q10 SPECS 8 MP, 3264 x 2448 pixels, autofocus, LED flash, check quality Geo-tagging, image stabilization, face detection Yes, 1080p@30fps, check quality Yes, 2 MP, 720p FEATURES BLACKBERRY Q10 SPECS OS BlackBerry 10 OS, upgradable to v10.1 TI OMAP 4470 CPU Dual-core 1.5 GHz Krait LTE version / Cortex-A9 Non-LTE GPU Adreno 225 LTE version / PowerVR SGX544 Non- Accelerometer, gyro, proximity, compass SMS, MMS, Email, Push Email, IM, BBM 6 No GPS Yes, with A-GPS support Yes, MIDP 2.1 Black, White - SNS integration - HDMI port - BlackBerry maps - Document editor - Photo viewer - MP3/WMA/WAV/eAAC+/FlAC player - Voice memo/dial - Predictive text input Li-Ion 2100 mAh battery 2G / Up to 360 h 3G Talk time Up to 10 h 2G / Up to 13 h 30 min 3G SAR US 1.16 W/kg head 0.75 W/kg body SAR EU 1.41 W/kg head 0.78 W/kg body Price group TESTS BLACKBERRY Q10 SPECS Contrast ratio: Infinite nominal / 2.856:1 sunlight Voice 69dB / Noise 66dB / Ring 75dB Audio quality Noise -89.6dB / Crosstalk -82.7dB Photo / Video Battery life Endurance rating 56h The blackberry q10 full phone specifications A bloated tummy is a sign of malnutrition. African summit to end hunger in the continent by 2025. Earlier this month, away from the shadows of the G-8 and distinctly apart from its power and profile, African nations quietly entered a pact to make history. At the African Union summit in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, African ministers made a pledge to end hunger in the continent by 2025. They agreed on a raft of measures, from national policies to dedicated funding, with a hope and promise of unleashing an agriculture revolution Africa has desperately waited for decades without much success. Through the Addis Declaration, African nations have committed to opening their doors to import ideas from countries like Brazil, China and Vietnam, which have successfully tackled hunger. The summit also highlighted the need to share and learn from the progress made within Africa ? in countries like Ethiopia, Niger and Malawi, where a number of community-based interventions have shown great results in addressing hunger and malnutrition. The summit, jointly convened by the U.N. Food and in acknowledging the complex dynamics of hunger underlining its links with malnutrition and recognising the role of women who make 70 percent of the agricultural workforce in Africa, and young people in the continent who can widen the use of technology in boosting production. For a continent that has chronically battled hunger ? and where 240 million people, that is nearly one out of every four persons, are food insecure and where undernutrition is directly or indirectly responsible hundreds of thousands of child deaths every year ? it is only too easy to dismiss this as yet another promise that is most likely to fail. Yet, despite the huge burden of the languishing initiatives and unmet commitments, there is a wave of confidence sweeping Africa today. From Ouagadougou to Addis Ababa, cities, suburbs, small towns and villages are experiencing a rapid transformation fuelled by an unprecedented growth in economy and wealth across African nations. According to the World Bank , growth in Africa has been widespread, with more than a third of countries posting annual growth rates of at least 6 percent in 2012 and another 40 percent growing between 4 and 6 percent. Even in the most impoverished of places, the economic activity has remained strong. There may not be enough food accessible to many, but mobile phone signals have reached the remotest of communities and selling cellular top-up cards has become a huge industry. The largely young population across Africa is driving the economic activity to new heights. Despite its crises, Africa is undergoing a phenomenal transition. The future may still be unsure, but one thing becoming increasingly certain: The growing confidence among African nations. It is this sentiment that can prove pivotal in how Africa can join up together to address its most critical issues, beginning with hunger and malnutrition. Africa is the only region in the world that has seen hunger numbers grow since 1990. The impact of this is not just restricted to a huge human cost but also includes an enormous economic burden. Hunger and undernutrition is estimated to generate costs of up to 11 percent to Africa?s public system. Mortality rate due to undernutrition has reduced the current workforce by up to eight percent and cumulative losses associated with undernutrition are said to represent between 2 and 16 percent of the GDP in African countries. It is now being widely acknowledged that to end hunger in Africa or almost anywhere in the world, it will not be enough to simply increase the production of food. Access to food requires more than just availability. factors that keep people from being food secure, including malnutrition, poverty and persistent social and economic inequalities. opening the hunger challenge to non-state actors such as the farmers? bodies, private sector, civil society and academia, to widen the search for effective solutions. new approach. Plan International has successfully piloted community-based methods to tackle hunger and malnutrition in several places in Africa. In the Sahel, Plan has used micro-finance groups of need and to prevent malnutrition. The benefits extend far beyond just mitigating hunger such as it can allow children to stay at school; it can prevent children from being forced into labour; and it can prevent girls becoming child brides as in many cases parents tend to marry girls early during drought periods to reduce their food burden. ending hunger. Brazil?s success story of ending hunger ? shared at the summit by former president Lula himself, is an example of how unwavering political hunger. A few countries in Africa have already made significant progress. FAO has recognized 11 African nations for meeting internationally agreed targets for halving the population of hungry people well before the Development Goals. The ?End Hunger in Africa? summit progress to cover the rest of the continent, and eventually end hunger by 2025. So, despite doubts and concerns, and a legacy of unmet promises, there is still hope for action in the African continent. Never before have African nations enjoyed such economic strength and confidence to make change happen. The governments must now match it with political commitment and action. They must seize this chance to end hunger in Africa. quality content. Now, if you happen to like something This makes sure that none of the people joining the community are looking to take advantage of it. Because these are real people with real followings that are genuinely sharing your content, you get a lot of visibility and traffic. You want traffic. You want relevant, targeted traffic that will convert. to your blog. All you have to do is find popular blogs in your blog. Sounds easy right? Well if you know how, it kind of is. will get into how to set it up soon . authority. -Where it says search query, type in a term related to one of your posts that you want to bring traffic to. -Set results type to blogs. -How often to once a day. -How many to only the best results. relevant posts from popular blogs. If you don?t mind Android apps can run on your pc,thanks to BlueStacks. Whatsapp a chat app for smartphones founded in 2009 . In 2013, whatsapp is the most papular platform for Instant Chatting. It allows you to exchange your videos, Pictures, Sound Clips etc with your friends or relatives. This app is available on almost many Now, come to the main point for how we use it on our pc and laptop. There is a software named? BlueStacks available. which allows to use all android apps on pc free of cost. It requires a good Internet connection to send or receive messages. 4. Type Whatsapp in the search box and hit search 6. Afer Install the app. click on it, it will ask you to 4: Lastly, the fourth model of the Note III is said to feature that's probably an error of some sort. At this point it's Knowles, Nicki Minaj and Kim Kardashian? Here's what you can do to build a buxom bottom. 1.Cinch up your waist . You can try something like the booty wow it lifts instantly without padding. look bigger by proportion. Whether your tummy is tiny or not, try these tips to trick the eye: Wear a belt over your waist. Find a medium to large width belt, and tie it around the tiniest part of your waist, over whatever shirt your'e wearing. This looks best over button-down shirts, sweaters, or loose blouses. For extra emphasis, try using a dark-colored belt over a light shirt. Try a girdle. If you have a little more girth than you'd like around your middle, try a girdle. It around your hips and butt. Girdles can be found at most department or lingerie stores. Don't wear horizontal stripes or patterns around your waist. Busy fabrics or colors will emphasize your tummy and make it look bigger. Instead, stick to dark, solid colors on top. 2.Pick the right pants . The right pair of jeans can seemingly transform your butt, making it appear round and perky. Consider the following next timeyou buy a pair of jeans: Keep the fit tight. Baggy pants will drown your curves, making them impossible to see underneath too much fabric. Skinny jeans or jeggings are ideal for showing off your butt. If you're not quite comfortable with that, try bootcut or regular jeans with a fitted rear. Look at pocket placement. Small, high back pockets will make your butt appear larger. as sequins, stitching, or colored thread can add more interest and direct traffic or draw the eye to your rear. Avoid jeans with big pockets or no pockets at all. should fit around the slimmest part of your waist, bigger. the illusion of a bigger rear. Avoid dark wash jeans, which will make your legs and rear look smaller especially if you're wearing a light-colored top . Instead, try white, pastel, or light blue jeans. 3.Wear high heels. Heels change the natural curve of your spine, causing both your butt and your boobs to protrude more. For an extra-lifted rear end, ditch the kitten heels and go for stilettos. If you're unsure that this works, get in front of a mirror and stand up on your tiptoes it will help . Take a few steps, and you'll notice how the movements of your legs and rear are a little more exaggerated. Your legs should also look more toned, and your butt should appear to be an inch or two higher. This advice applies to men as well. The first high heels were designed for horse riders, to help the shoes grip stirrups. To this day, cowboy boots sport heels and many cowboys sport tighter jeans ? coincidence? . Keep in mind that wearing high heels all the time can permanently damage your feet and knees. 4.Change your posture and your walk . How you carry yourself can highlight or obscure different parts of your body. While wearing heels can alter your posture, you can also do it without them. Here's how: Throw your shoulders back and arch your lower back. This will not only make your butt more prominent, but it'll also slim your torso a bit and make your chest look bigger. Imitate the way runway models walk. Imagine there's a straight line running on the ground ahead of you, and it's located exactly beneath your belly button, in the center between your two feet. When you take a step, move your foot toward the center of your body, putting it down on this imaginary line. Then put your other foot down on that line, directly in front of your first foot. Keep walking this way, one foot in front of the other and clench your glutes. items problem. Samsung GT-E2222? items . Though I have 3Gbs of free space on my MicroSD and 30Mbs on my phone. Also, sometime games will say JAR file to big; how do I make the size limit bigger? 3. You see the value 500 in Maximum JAR size field, change it any number higher than 500, e.g. 2000. do the following. thats it. pc. Go to extracted folder then go to Flash loader setup.exe. 3. Now go back to Flash loader 7.4.7_SSG_v0.1_ button and connect mobile usb cable to pc. reset: *2767*3855# Nokia Lumia 928 for Verizon Wireless is the carrier's long awaited, exclusive Windows Phone 8 flagship. The LTE smartphone was part of the rumor mill for quite some time - the first reports of a high-end Nokia smartphone for the Big Red emerged right when the Lumia 920 landed exclusively on AT&T late last year. 2G Network GSM 850 / 900 / 1800 / 1900 CDMA 800 / 1900 3G Network HSDPA 850 / 900 / 1900 / 2100 CDMA2000 1xEV-DO 4G Network LTE 700 MHz Class 13 / 1700 / 2100 LTE 800 / 900 / 1800 / 2100 / 2600 2013, April Available. Released 2013, May 133 x 68.9 x 10.1 mm, 92.8 cc 5.24 x 2.71 x 0.40 in 162 g 5.71 oz AMOLED capacitive touchscreen, 16M colors 768 x 1280 pixels, 4.5 inches ~332 ppi pixel density - PureMotion HD+ ClearBlack display Alert types Vibration; MP3, WAV ringtones 3.5mm jack Card slot 32 GB, 1 GB RAM Up to 236.8 kbps EV-DO Rev. A, up to 3.1 Mbps; HSDPA, 42.2 Mbps; HSUPA, 5.76 Mbps; LTE, Cat3, 50 Mbps UL, 100 Mbps Wi-Fi 802.11 a/b/g/n, dual-band, DLNA, Wi-Fi hotspot Yes, v3.0 with A2DP, EDR Yes, microUSB v2.0 8 MP, 3264 x 2448 pixels, Carl Zeiss optics, optical image stabilization, autofocus, xenon flash 1/3.2'' sensor size, 1.4 ?m pixel size, PureView technology, geo-tagging, panorama Yes, 1080p@30fps, video stabilization, stereo sound rec. Yes, 1.3 MP, 720p@30fps Adreno 225 Accelerometer, gyro, proximity, compass SMS threaded view , MMS, Email, Push Email, IM Yes, with A-GPS support and GLONASS Black, White - Wireless charging - Active noise cancellation with dedicated mic - 7GB free SkyDrive storage - MP3/WAV/eAAC+/WMA player - Predictive text input Non-removable Li-Ion 2000 mAh battery BV 4-NW Up to 606 h 2G / Up to 541 h 3G Talk time Up to 11 h 40 min 2G / Up to 16 h 20 min 3G Music play Up to 80 h 1.44 W/kg head 1.38 W/kg body 0.88 W/kg head Price group Audio quality Noise -82.5dB / Crosstalk -80.7dB Battery life LG's first 1080p droid is also the company's first smartphone to cross the 5 mark, but a massive screen isn't the only thing that warrants the Pro tag. The LG Optimus G Pro boasts a new chipset too, and a significant software update over the Optimus G. 2G Network GSM 850 / 900 / 1800 / 1900 - all versions 3G Network HSDPA 900 / 2100 - E985, E988 HSDPA 850 / 1900 / 2100 - for AT&T 4G Network LTE 1800 / 2600 - E988 LTE 700 MHz Class 17 / 1700 / 2100 - for AT&T 2013, February Available. Released 2013, April 150.2 x 76.1 x 9.4 mm 5.91 x 3.00 x 0.37 in 172 g 6.07 oz True Full HD IPS Plus LCD capacitive touchscreen, 16M colors 1080 x 1920 pixels, 5.5 inches ~401 ppi pixel density Alert types Vibration, MP3, WAV ringtones 3.5mm jack - Dolby mobile sound enhancement Card slot microSD, up to 64 GB 16/32 GB, 2 GB RAM Class 12 4+1/3+2/2+3/1+4 slots , 32 - 48 kbps Class 12 HSDPA, 42.2 Mbps; HSUPA, 5.76 Mbps; LTE, Cat3, 50 Mbps UL, 100 Mbps DL Wi-Fi 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac, dual-band, Wi-Fi Direct, DLNA, Wi-Fi hotspot Yes, v4.0 with A2DP Infrared port Yes, microUSB v2.0 MHL , USB Host 13 MP, 4208 x 3120 pixels, autofocus, LED flash, check quality Geo-tagging, face detection, image stabilization, panorama, HDR Yes, 1080p@30fps, dual-video rec., HDR, check quality Yes, 2.1 MP, 1080p@30fps Android OS, v4.1.2 Jelly Bean Adreno 320 Accelerometer, gyro, proximity, compass SMS threaded view , MMS, Email, Push Mail, IM, RSS HTML5, Adobe Flash Stereo FM radio with RDS Yes, with A-GPS, S-GPS support and GLONASS Yes, via Java MIDP emulator Black, - Active noise cancellation with dedicated mic - TV-out via MHL A/V link - MP3/WMA/WAV/FLAC/eAAC+/AC3 player - Predictive text input Li-Ion 3140 mAh battery Up to 598 h 2G / Up to 550 h 3G Talk time Up to 31 h 2G / Up to 21 h 3G 0.64 W/kg head 1.29 W/kg body 0.32 W/kg head 0.49 W/kg body Contrast ratio: 1489:1 nominal / 1.552:1 sunlight Voice 72dB / Noise 66dB / Ring 72dB Audio quality Noise -81.7dB / Crosstalk -80.7dB Battery life Top Ways To Make Money Online Individuals who only hold single jobs feel shattered when their employment ends. With no cash coming, bills can accumulate and reach insurmountable proportions. However, a smart individual who simultaneously maintains ways to make money online while working with a day job will always have a good base to fall back on. One can easily recover monetary losses brought about by the loss of a job if he has placed some of his energies on easy ways to make money on the internet. Bills can be paid and the other necessities in life can be taken cared of some of the best ways to make money online. Here is a list of some of the easy ways to make extra money on the worldwide web: Make Money Online by Buying and Selling Domain Names Buying and selling domain names are some of the easy ways to make extra money on the Internet. There are a lot of people making a killing by purchasing and selling these online real estate items. You can utilize Google Adwords and look for trending keywords on the Internet and use them as basis when buying domain names that have the potential to be in demand in the near future. Your only challenge is that there are people who are also on the lookout for these potentially valuable domain names. What you can do is go for acronyms because you can never tell when a new company would need a website. One fine example is CPC.com which was sold for more than $200,000. The acronym now stands for Contract Pharmaceutical Corporation. They bought the website when they finally decided to have online presence. Make Money with Audio Editing There are a lot of available sound-editing software out there and with a little practice and a few applications, you may have found one of the many easy ways to make money online. With these audio editing tools, you can offer services such as cleaning up interviews and webcasts prior to their release on the worldwide web. You can find a lot of people looking for this kind of service on websites such as oDesk and eLance. Join Contests The internet is filled with different types of sponsored contests. Because you need to win in order to get compensation, Since you won?t get paid unless your entry wins, look for contests in areas where you can send a good number of entries such as those that deal with logos, background design, and photos. Submit as many entries as you can. This task can be very tedious but a few wins can compensate your effort. Make Money with Affiliate Marketing If you are maintaining a website, an ingenious way to earn extra cash is to promote somebody else?s services or products. This is called affiliate marketing. One of the many advantages of affiliate marketing is that you do not have to stock up on products or pay in advance in order to sell. Advertisements that are part of an affiliate program are generally integrated into another person?s blog or website using linked articles especially if you write informative and compelling content, videos, photos, or straight up banner advertisements. Look for websites that offer potentially sellable products and services. If your website gets tons of traffic already, you may be interested in cost-per-click advertising. Although you do not get much cash for every click, you can increase your earnings with the mere size of the traffic that your website generates. You can also go for commission with cost-per-acquisition advertising. This is a good way to earn extra money if your articles have great content. Webinar Marketing If you know an awful lot about a specific subject, you can make some money online by doing webinar marketing. This is the same as the traditional seminar marketing and the only difference is this is done online. A lot of people participate in webinars because they are more cost effective you do not have to travel and live in hotels . All you need to do is post your web9inar date on the internet together with your topic and the cost of participation. Become a Headhunter If you know a lot of people who have skills that you are willing to stake your name on, you can refer them to prospective employers online and get a hefty commission. You can earn between fifty to a thousand dollars depending on the position required. If you are in a band and you have made several original recordings, you can post your music online and soliciting payments for downloads. You can offer samples and request for reviews until your music becomes popular enough. One great example of a band who raked lots of money this way is Radiohead who a few years back sold its album using their own website and asking for donations. This way, you can earn a lot because the payment process does not require any middlemen who get percentage cuts from the revenue. Make Money Online with Graphic Design If you are an expert in graphic design software such as Adobe Photoshop, Corel, Freehand, and a lot more, you ought to be aware that you can earn a lot by offering your services online. You can start by creating a blogsite or webpage where you can showcase your portfolio. Go through the usual online classified sits such as Craigslist and Odesk and search for clients who are in need of graphic design artists. Although it may take a few months before you can finally establish a clientele, you can definitely earn a lot this way because you won?t be sharing your profits with anyone else. Make Money Online with Stock Photos If your hobby is taking photos, you can post your work online and sell stock photos. It is one of the easiest and fastest ways to earn money online. Individuals and companies search for pictures on the Internet using keywords, and because of this, your posts will be in equal footing as everyone else?s. This means you can submit any photo that you want because you will never know what a specific entity requires. The amazing thing about selling stock photos is that there is no maintenance required, once they have been posted, all you have to do is wait. eBooks People who possess the knack to write can generate revenue via the creation of eBooks and selling them on the worldwide web. There will be a market for any topic somewhere so you can easily create one. look into eBook sales sites and check the topics of the most sellable ones, or pick a theme that has not been discussed extensively yet and write an eBook on that one. Never write about a topic that anyone can easily research on. Sell Apps For techies out there, you can actually become rich by creating and selling apps. Even if your app sells for a dollar, if it?s something that people can really use, your creation can go a long way. Just make sure that you do not create an app that already exists in the market. Make sure that you familiarize with the regulations set by the firms who own the gadgets you are selling your apps to. Write and Sell Articles Most websites need good content. If you are familiar with how search engine optimization works and you know how the keywords affect the ranking of websites, you can create articles that can be sold to website owners who want to increase their rank on the search engine results page. You can start by creating 300- word articles and sell them to websites who would most likely need them. If you have been writing for the longest time, you can sell your work to large publications companies. SEO writing is something that is not taught in school so you have to do a little bit of research on how it is done. Unlike creative writing, SEO writing requires some knowledge in online ranking science and the way the Internet and the search engines work. Set Up an Online Store If you carry items that would not sell well in a physical store, you can broaden your market by creating an Internet-based store. There are requirements before you can put up an online enterprise. You would need a secure website powered by a reliable host and that would require some cash. Nevertheless, establishing a store based online is way cheaper than building a physical establishment. If you are not computer-savvy, you can hire a reliable webmaster to do the work for you. CONCLUSION There are a lot of ways to make money online and all you have to do is find what matches your wants and capabilities. There are online earning schemes that you can establish without shelling out cash. All you need is a good computer and a dependable internet connection. You can write, sell, serve, and even post whatever you want on the worldwide web and get paid for it. As soon as you have made your choice, research on how you can boost your progress in order to increase your income potential. GOOD LUCK!