oldephartte in training : 30 July - Blogs I'm Following oldephartte in training Archives for RSS Returns : History as Seen by Bloggers Tuesday, July 30, 2013 30 July - Blogs I'm Following 10:55am MDST Foo Fighters and the USS New York KRandle at A Different Perspective - 8 minutes ago Well, it?s happened again. Got an email about a Foo Fighter sighting at the end of World War II which was radar confirmed. The ship, the *USS New York*apparently fired on the object without results which meant that they neither hit it nor drove it away. This all happened in the middle of March, 1945, sometime after the invasion of Iwo Jima and before the invasion of Okinawa. USS New York in 1945. According to the story, as told in several sources, it was about one o?clock in the afternoon when the captain of the *New York* sounded general quarters. While the crew searched the sky fo... more ? How America?s Working Stiffs Got Stiffed noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 8 minutes ago * * * How America?s Working Stiffs Got Stiffed * by Bill Bonner Amazing how much difference a few years make. We first visited China in the 1980s. It was an appalling dump. Few cars. Few roads. Almost no decent restaurants or hotels. Now in Beijing you see large black luxury automobiles everywhere? and modern highways crisscrossing in front of huge hotels and apartment buildings. The Chinese have made real progress! And what about Americans? But let?s check in on Wall Street before we continue our tale. Uh-huh? nothing much going on there. Monday was another lazy, hazy summer da... more ? Untitled New Orleans Ladder at New Orleans Ladder - 15 minutes ago *Marigny homeowner Merritt Landry?s remanded to jail; bond was illegally posted ~New Orleans Advocate* US Developing Mind Reading noreply@blogger.com Mark Daniels at Global Political Awakening - 54 minutes ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] *Youtube* The US government is pouring money into a technology called fMRI, functional magnetic resonance imaging, which measures changes in localized brain activity over time by watching blood flow. And it can now be used to infer information about our memories. It can tell things like what we have actually seen or experienced. Though no court has admitted fMRI results as evidence yet, the signs clearly point in that direction. Enter your email address to subscribe to our newsletter: Delivered by FeedBurner Be the C... more ? Pediatrician Says 5-in-1 Vaccine Pushed by Bill Gates? GAVI, WHO Will Kill 3,125 Babies noreply@blogger.com Mark Daniels at Global Political Awakening - 58 minutes ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] *If the whole purpose of vaccines is to ?save children?, why give a shot that statistics indicate will HARM more kids than it will HELP?* * *Aaron Dykes and Melissa Melton At least 70 infants across five developing nations have died shortly after receiving a World Health Organization- WHO and GAVI-backed pentavalent 5-in-1 vaccine that combines the Diphtheria, Pertussis, Tetanus or DPT shot with the Hepatitis-B and H influenza-b or Hib vaccines. According to a recently published editorial in the *Indian Journal of Medic... more ? The Mounties always get their man ... off Alison at Creekside - 59 minutes ago Like the other three RCMP officers, Constable Bill Bentley stated Robert Dziekanski grabbed a stapler and came at members screaming. Paul Pritchard's video showed Dziekanski was backed up against a table with his hands up. At his inquiry, Justice Braidwood called their nearly identical explanations shameful , patently unbelievable , and deliberate misrepresentations of what happened for the purpose of justifying their actions . Yesterday B.C. Supreme Court Justice Mark McEwan found Bentley not guilty of perjury : It is quite possible that the Pritchard video did not capture... more ? Refreshing and Amazing Strawberry Limeades Debra Hawkins at Housewife Eclectic - 1 hour ago [image: Strawberry Limeades] I may be obsessed with limeade. I can't remember the last time I made a pitcher of lemonade in my house. We used to have different friends over for dinner every week when we lived in Texas, and I was always delighted at the looks of their faces when they realized that the delicious lemonade was actually limeade. It is my absolutely favorite drink. I have spent most of my life drinking it non-carbonated which I thought was the best way, until I tried these. This drink is easy to make and simply incredible. Delicious and refreshing. My husband begs me ... more ? Iraq Proposes Changing Its Provincial Borders Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 1 hour ago In July 2013, Iraq?s parliament passed along a draft law to redraw the country?s provincial boundaries. The bill was proposed by President Jalal Talabani back at the beginning of 2012 to reverse all the internal changes made by Saddam Hussein. If passed it would dramatically change the internal contours of the country. Unfortunately, Iraq?s legislature is not known for its expertise. Many lawmakers are probably unaware of what the law would do to Iraq. It would mean many elected politicians would lose their jobs or get lower positions within existing governments. One thing the Ira... more ? LOS ANGELES TIMES VIDEO: More Than 50 Killed In Wave Of Rush-Hour Car Bombings In Iraq Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 1 hour ago AL JAZEERA VIDEO: Deadly Warve of Car Bombs Strikes Iraq Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 1 hour ago REUTERS VIDEO: Wave of Car Bombings Kills Dozens In Iraq Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 1 hour ago Myrtle Beach Outlaws Feeding the Homeless on Public AND Private Property noreply@blogger.com Mark Daniels at Global Political Awakening - 1 hour ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] image source Brandon Turbeville Myrtle Beach, South Carolina is widely known as a growing city due to its popular beaches and an economy geared toward the attraction of tourists, golfers, and vacationers. Any such community, of course, is naturally going to compete with other geographically similar locations. Thus, not to be outdone by other beach communities such as Orlando, Florida,[1] Myrtle Beach has now followed suit in banning good Samaritans from engaging in such charitable acts as feeding the homeless.[2] In yet one... more ? About talks about talks sue at Is the BBC biased? - 1 hour ago These ?talks about talks? in yesterday?s headlines provided the BBC with another opportunity to confuse the listener. Monday?s Today featured two items on this topic. In the first, at 7:51, Justin called upon the opinions of two specially selected guests. *Ghada Karmi, a doctor and journalist, and Lord Levy, president of Community Service Volunteers Jewish Care, outline what the talks will be trying to achieve.* * * Ghada Karmi, a doctor and journalist Lord Levy So says the Today website. It seems odd to describe Ghada thus. She?s a well-known anti-Israel activist. Her bio s... more ? Mohawk Nation News 'Straight Up' brendanorrell@gmail.com at CENSORED NEWS - 1 hour ago STRAIGHT UP Posted on?July 29, 2013 Mohawk Nation News? MNN. JULY 29, 2013.?What would you do if an old man sent pictures of his erect penis to your adolescent daughter, along with suggestive sexual invitations to have sex? It?s like suggesting a father rape his daughter. Former Congressman, Anthony Weiner, a wealthy politician running for mayor of New York City is setting this example. Tiwesd?g: the Left-hand of Linkage Daniel Nexon at Duck of Minerva - 1 hour ago Discussion has picked up again on Elizabeth Saunders? guest post, ?How Would Al Gore Have Fought the Iraq War.? I think it worth clarifying that Elizabeth?s piece does, as I read it, two things. First, it extends the debate by asking, in essence, ?if we believe that parallel-universe President Gore would have launched an attack against Continue reading THIS WEEKEND IN MAINE Bruce K. Gagnon at Organizing Notes - 1 hour ago The Baltimore Sun?s no-good, terrible judgment! bob somerby at the daily howler - 1 hour ago *TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2013* *Feeding a frenzy, as facts disappear:* The Baltimore Sun has shown terrible judgment in the wake of the Zimmerman verdict. For one example, consider an opinion piece which was prominently featured in last Saturday?s hard-copy paper. It appeared beneath a colorful headline: ?The new lynching,? the large headline said. That inflammatory headline has been cleaned up on-line. We don?t know the non-journalist author of the piece, but we feel sure that he?s a good decent person. That said, good decent people can get caught up in frenzies, especially so when jour... more ? Long Walk 4 update July 30, 2013 brendanorrell@gmail.com at CENSORED NEWS - 1 hour ago Photo by longwalker Aki Zaagi By Longest Walk 4 Return to Alcatraz Censored News July 30, 2013 The Walk is leaving Wheeling today and heading west on 40 and some back roads where 40 runs into Interstate 70. We would like to thank the Soup Kitchen of Greater Wheeling, Becky and her husband, Carmelita, Tommy, and Willy Underbaggage for their support. The truck will be on the road again in the Moccasins on the Ground: Non-violent tarsands resistance Montana Aug 2013 brendanorrell@gmail.com at CENSORED NEWS - 1 hour ago From Loving Your Pain to Feeling Your Pain Karen Garcia at Sardonicky - 2 hours ago How does President Obama telegraph his contempt for the working class? By traveling to an Amazon distribution warehouse full of temporary wage slaves and calling for a cut in the corporate tax rate from 35 to 28%. And on top of that, bestowing our financial overlords with even more monetary incentives to train workers for those low-paying jobs and then rewarding them with even more financial perks when they hire those newly trained low-paid workers. It's a trifecta for the plutocracy, a triple whammy for the rest of us. It's a perfect example of privatized profit at public expense. ... more ? DUBLINERS TOO: Journalists build a sacred tale! bob somerby at the daily howler - 2 hours ago *TUESDAY, JULY 30, 2013* *Part 2?And the fact-checkers disappear:* Early in The Plague, Camus describes the way an undesirable condition can seize a community without anyone much taking notice. He imagined a pestilence, an epidemic of disease, seizing the city of Oran. Still early in his tale, he describes why Dr. Rieux, and other citizens, failed to see it happening: CAMUS *page 36* : The word ?plague? had just been uttered for the first time. At this stage of the narrative, with Dr. Bernard Rieux standing at his window, the narrator may, perhaps, be allowed to justify the doctor... more ? The McDonaldization of the US Land Destroyer at Land Destroyer - 2 hours ago *Eric Draitser of StopImperialism.com appears on RT's CrossTalk to discuss the state of the US economy, specifically the assault on working people and the poor. Eric explains how low wage jobs have been used as a weapon by the ruling class to convert the US economy from a high wage economy to one that is typified by low wages, temporary jobs, and a reduced standard of living. Eric also examines many other aspects of this issue in this half hour program.* Ants noreply@blogger.com deBeauxOs at DAMMIT JANET! - 2 hours ago My friend is grousing about the ants that have invaded her house in Montr?al. She picks them up and drops them in the garden, she shoos them out the door, she has even resorted to using those round tins with poisoned bait inside. Carpenter ants have been a problem in many Canadian homes this year because of the diluvial weather in spring and summer. I pointed out that the ants were climate refugees. Hunh! she snorted. Well, they can go right back where they came from, they're not moving into this house. Late last night, while I was downstairs reading in blissful solitude, I ... more ? ER-EPR correspondence and bipartite closed strings Lubo? Motl at The Reference Frame - 3 hours ago This text is just an experiment. I want to know the number of viewers of a blog entry on a related topic and the composition and character of comments if there are any. The insight below is not necessary correct; and it is not necessarily fundamental. ;- The Maldacena-Susskind ER-EPR correspondence invites one to think that non-traversable wormholes are natural, sort of inevitable ? because spacetimes with this topology are physically equivalent to ordinary spacetimes with entangled degrees of freedom in two regions. One of the things I was thinking about was whether there are ot... more ? The Lessons of Recent History Len Hart at The Existentialist Cowboy - 3 hours ago *by Len Hart, The Existentialist Cowboy* In his essay on Shakespeare's ?Julius Caesar?, W.H. Auden observed that theatrical directors throughout the 30's found it quite natural to make of Caesar a great fascist dictator, more like Mussolini than Hitler. The conspirators, he claimed, were ?liberals?. Up to date analogies are irresistible. For a brief period not long before Iraq fell into utter chaos, that it could be said that George W. Bush had ?...crossed the Rubicon?. There are better analogies to be made. In 1947, Auden would say of Shakespeare's Julius Caesar that it had ?grea... more ? Burdens of proof in a blended voir dire James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 3 hours ago R. v. Boston, 2013 ONCA 498 deals with the complexities of burdens of proof in a blended voir dire. Even though all the evidence is heard at once it is essential to keep the different decisions separate and decide them according to the relevant legal principles. This author considers the difficulties such that it may be better to avoid blended voir dires generally: [23] In a *Charter *application, the burden of proof is on the defence to establish a breach on a balance of probabilities. In a criminal trial, the burden of proof is on the Crown to establish the guilt of the ... more ? My aching back James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 3 hours ago Read Stuff, You Should Jonathan Bernstein at A plain blog about politics - 3 hours ago Happy Birthday to Louise Wener, 47. I saw Sleeper opening for Elvis in Berkeley, I guess right at the top of their brief run...they were quite good! I had no idea what happened to her; turns out she's a successful novelist, apparently. How many rock star/novelists are there, anyway? The guy who is John Wesley Harding, I know; also Dr. Frank from Mr. T. I'm probably missing an obvious one. Some good stuff: 1. Boris Shor on state legislature polarization. 2. Joan Walsh on Ralph Nader. One of the hallmarks of US politics is that democracy is the stated universal preference; support fo... more ? Best Predictor Of How Congressmembers Voted On The Amendment To End NSA Spying: Legalistic Bribes From Defense Industry DownWithTyranny at DownWithTyranny! - 3 hours ago David Kravets put the vote on the Amash-Conyers amendment to end warrantless domestic spying into a sensible perspective for *Wired* Last week: Lawmakers Who Upheld NSA Phone Spying Received Double the Defense Industry Cash. And, appropriately enough, the photo in his piece-- Congress' most corrupt Military Industrial Complex shill, Buck McKeon R-CA . The numbers tell the story-- in votes and dollars. On Wednesday, the House voted 217 to 205 not to rein in the NSA?s phone-spying dragnet. It turns out that those 217 ?no? voters received twice as much campaign financing from the ... more ? Finally - Is Japan slowly taking over dealing with Fukushima from Tepco ? Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 4 hours ago Tepco on the way out - as far as being in charge of dealing with the extreme complex Fukushima debacle ? Energy News items of note.... 07:11 AM EST on July 30th, 2013 | 3 comments Japan gov?t intervening at Fukushima nuclear plant ? Will take over measuring radiation levels ? Top official ?questioned accuracy of Tepco?s data on contamination? 07:09 PM EST on July 29th, 2013 | 43 comments Radio: Fukushima Daiichi has ?contaminated the biggest body of water on the planet? ? Radioactive leaks to harm marine and human life ? Whole Pacific Ocean likely to have cesium levels 5-10 times hi... more ? It's About Quality, Not Just Numbers Owen Gray at Northern Reflections - 4 hours ago As each month comes to an end, we wait with baited breath to discover how many new jobs were created in the last thirty days. But Yogendra Shakya and Axelle Janczur write that the kind of jobs we create is just as -- if not more -- important than the number of jobs we create: In the name of ?free market? policies, Canada has seen a downward push on wages and a rise in unstable, temporary and unsafe jobs. These types of jobs are broadly referred to as ?precarious work? or ?non-standard employment? since they are marked by limited or no stability, benefits and protection. Sever... more ? China economic news of note - July 30 , 2013....17 billion yuan reverse repo - first since february - fears of liquidity crunch motivating PBOC ? How serious is china regarding the announced audit of local authorities and state enterprise debts ? Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 4 hours ago http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2013-07-30/overnight-news-not-terrible-enough-assure-new-all-time-highs [image: Tyler Durden's picture] Overnight News Not Terrible Enough To Assure New All Time HighsSubmitted by Tyler Durden on 07/30/2013 - 07:05 While the market's eyes were fixed on the near record slide in Japanese Industrial Production even as its ears glazed over the latest commentary rerun from Aso which did however lead to a 1.53% jump in the PenNikkeiStock market on hope of more stimulus to get floundering Abenomics back on track, the most important news from the overnight ses... more ? Ed Steer's Gold and Silver Report - July 30 , 2013 - data , news and views ! Comex registered gold and total warehouse gold declines continue ! Did the Bank of England direct the release of 1300 tons of gold during the period of March through June of 2013 ? Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 5 hours ago http://www.caseyresearch.com/gsd/edition/jeff-clark-a-photovoltaic-silver-bull-in-china Gold closed at $1,327.20 spot...down $6.60 from Friday's close. Gross volume was way up there at 254, 300 contracts, but once all the roll-overs are subtracted out, the net volume was a tiny 17,000 contracts. The silver price action was a different story, however. Silver was under pressure almost right from the Sunday night open in New York...and hit its low tick shortly after London opened their Monday. From that low, silver began to rally nicely, but it was obvious from the price action that... more ? Untitled New Orleans Ladder at New Orleans Ladder - 5 hours ago *Developers win the WTC ~Jaquetta White* *In Marigny, a clash of opinions follows teen's shooting ~Meg Gatto, WVUE* *Hell waiting for high water ? the devil in the details of the flooding of Jefferson Parish ~Slabbed* *Post-Katrina hero Abdulrahman Zeitoun stands trial in attempted murder, hit on ex-wife ~John Simerman, New Orleans Advocate* *TS Dorian now officially a remnant* *A Delicious Break for Louisiana?s Wild-Caught Catfish* *Roosters in New Orleans ~Marta Jewson, Gambit* Car key immobilizer hack revelations blocked by UK courtyard Megaan at Current news updates, World current news - 5 hours ago *A High Court judge has blocked three security researchers from publishing details of how to break a car immobilization system.* German car maker Volkswagen and French defense group Thales obtained the interim ruling after arguing that the information could be used by criminals. The knowledge is used by quite a few car manufacturers. The academics had intended to present the in turn at a meeting in August. The three researchers are Flavio Garcia, a computer science lecturer at the University of Birmingham, and Baris Ege and Roel Verdult, security researchers at Radboud University... more ? Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig prepares to go nuclear against A-Rod in PED suspension battle by invoking the power to protect the integrity of the game - that would allow Baseball to immediately suspend A-Rod without A-Rod being able to seek a stay pending appeal.....Bottom line is if A-Rod decides to fight the looming suspension rather than accept a deal and if Baseball similarly stands its ground by invoking the integrity of the game tool , A-Rod will never play for not just the Yanks but in the MLB again ! Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 6 hours ago http://www.nypost.com/p/sports/yankees/rod_attorney_appeal_will_shred_documents_Sb1l83AKgmm5rmR5H0iDwN TAMPA ? While Alex Rodriguez spent time hitting yesterday, we learned considerably more about his defense. Major League Baseball isn?t impressed. And baseball is so offended by A-Rod?s alleged behavior it might try to keep him off the field immediately. With MLB set to bring down the suspension hammer on Rodriguez and other Biogenesis suspects as soon as tomorrow, his attorney, David Cornwell, offered a glimpse yesterday of how the beleaguered Yankees? third baseman intends to appea... more ? Freikorps Paul Coker at News Spike - 7 hours ago After the First World War former senior officers in the German Army began raising private armies called Freikorps. These were used to defend the German borders against the possibility of invasion from the Red Army. Later they were used against attempts at revolution in Germany. General Franz Epp led 30,000 soldiers to crush the Bavarian Socialist Republic in March, 1919. It is estimated that Epp's men killed over 600 communists and socialists over the next few weeks. Herman Ehrhardt, a former naval commander and Wolfgang Kapp, a right-wing journalist, led a group of soldiers to t... more ? Taliban frees hundreds in Pakistan , while also killing scores in bombing in Afghanistan..... US weapons surfacing among islamist rebels already in Egypt ? Meanwhile , another bloody day in free Iraq ! Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 7 hours ago Af- Pak news...... http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/pakistan/Taliban-launch-major-attack-on-Pakistani-prison-free-300-inmates/articleshow/21476041.cms ISLAMABAD: Pakistani Taliban disguised as policemen attacked a prison in the country's northwestern town of Dera Ismail Khan, freeing more than 300 prisoners late on Monday. The jail officials said that several of the prisoners, four security personnel and two assailants were killed in the attack. The prison was housing at least 5000 prisoners, 250 of them hardcore militants. Malik Qasim Khattak, advisor to the ministry of pr... more ? New iPhone likely to have a fingerprint scanner Lubo? Motl at The Reference Frame - 8 hours ago One year ago, Apple bought AuthenTec, a Prague-based security company 7 Husineck? Street , for $356 million. One may now check the Czech commercial register shows two key people from Cupertino, California, aside from a Czech male and Czech female name that started the company with the basic registered capital of $10,000 too late for great investments . ;- Yesterday, the Czech technological media reported that the iOS7 beta4 code contains a BiometricKitUI.axbundle folder along with some sentences suggesting that the fingerprint scanner will read your thumb when it touches the ho... more ? Gone Fishin' The Mound of Sound at The Disaffected Lib - 9 hours ago No posts today from me. Time for some long overdue moto-photo therapy. The moto part is my now 8-year old BMW R1200GS, The Beast : It is widely considered the best touring motorcycle ever. Not the most comfortable, the Hondas and Harleys, but by far the most capable. I bought this bike, sight unseen, based on the Bike of the Year reviews it gathered in 2005. I showed up at the dealership in Eugene, Oregon and I'd never even seen one. There, front and centre in the showroom was The Beast. It was HUGE. I briefly thought about turning around and walking straight ba... more ? What's a 'settlement'? Not a sheep at Not a sheep - 9 hours ago Dry Bones on the money as usual. CHILD PORN FOR WOMEN? Anon at aangirfan - 9 hours ago *Alissa Nutting. Her book reveals the mind of a predator, a female paedophile. **Alissa Nutting's Tampa* Alissa Nutting has written a book about a female teacher who is sexually obsessed with 14-year-old boys. The book contains graphic sex scenes. It is the kind of book that would have been available only in porn shops in days gone by. *dailymail.co.uk/femail/* In popular usage, a pedophile is anyone who finds sexually attractive kids to be sexually attractive. This could mean that most women are pedophiles. It may be more accurate to say that a pedophile is someone who find... more ? Henry Geiger - Signs of A New Civilization Saman Mohammadi at The Excavator - 10 hours ago * * *Related: * * Henry Geiger - Symbol And Myth 1974 .* *Henry Geiger - The Present And The Long View 1979 *. *Henry Geiger - Moonshine And Sunlight 1984 .* * * * Henry Geiger - The Uses of Make Believe 1983 .* * **Wikipedia:* Henry Geiger 1908?-15 February 1989 was the editor, publisher, and chief writer of MANAS Journal which published from 1948-1988. Abraham Maslow called him ?the only small ?p? philosopher America has produced in this century.? *Below is an excerpt from, Signs of A New Civilization by Henry Geiger. Source: MANAS Journal, Volume XXXIII, No. 20. May ... more ? Some Rushed Thoughts on Egypt And Morsi Saman Mohammadi at The Excavator - 10 hours ago *Photo source*. It is an easy thing to manipulate events and public opinion, especially when powerful institutions like the army and media are collaborating together on one particular project or have their eye on a single goal. This has always been true in history, and it is true today, in any country, and under any political system, democratic or authoritarian, Western or Eastern. But, with that said, saying that the Egyptian army hatched a grand political conspiracy to bring millions of Egyptians to the streets and then exploit their massive anger and frustration to fulfill t... more ? ROYAL FOOTMAN LEAVES Anon at aangirfan - 11 hours ago Royal footman *Badar Azim* posted the news of the safe arrival of the Duchess of Cambridge's baby. Azim is no longer working for the Queen. His visa has run out. Badar was educated at the St Mary?s Orphanage in Calcutta. Read more: *http://www.dailymail.co.uk/* Right Wing 'News/Talk' Radio In Major Decline - Large US Radio Distributor Drops Rush Limbaugh And Others .... leftdog at Buckdog - 12 hours ago ** [image: Progressive Bloggers] *Toxic, aggressive Right Wing radio talk show formats appear to be on the decline in both the US and Canada ... good news for the vast majority of us. * * ** In what might be the biggest blow to Rush Limbaugh?s career as a radio personality as of yet, the second largest radio distributor in the country, Cumulus Media, is set to drop Limbaugh?s show from its airways at the end of the year.* * * *But not just Limbaugh?s show?Cumulus Media will drop Sean Hannity?s show as well.* ***Politico is reporting that Cumulus Media has decided not to renew the ... more ? Say Goodbye To Hate Talk Radio? Not Quite Yet But... Limbaugh's Empire Of Mindless Bigotry Is Crumbling DownWithTyranny at DownWithTyranny! - 12 hours ago There's no question that the intrepid StopRush and FlushRush activists deserve a lot of the credit for this, but Cumulus, America's second biggest radio chain announced that they can't make any money on Limbaugh's show any longer and that they won't be renewing his contract at the end of the year-- making their 40 outlets that have carried him Limbaugh-free zones. And they're dumping Sean Hannity's GOP propaganda show at the same time. Radio Industry columnist Tim Taylor put the good news into perspective for his insider readers: ?Negotiations broke down? between Clear Channel an... more ? We're Doing A Lot! Small Footprints at Reduce Footprints - 12 hours ago Feedback is important! It helps us make choices and determine our path in life. When it comes to green living, feedback is in short supply. We recycle and conserve, hoping that our efforts will make a difference. But, in reality, the results can take years to see. In our last survey, we asked readers to select all the Eco-friendly activities that they participate in. Twenty-four people responded. Here are the results: *ACTIVITYRESPONSESRecycling24Using Reusable Bags23Using Reusable Water Bottles21Walking17Upcycling16Washing Clothes in Cold Water16Eating Meatless Meals16Eating Beef-... more ? Tom Hayden : Secrecy Protests Split American Elites thorne dreyer at The Rag Blog - 13 hours ago Image from ElectronicFrontierFoundation / Flickr. Protests against secrecy drive elites into debate A virtual empire composed of distant and interconnected private and public elites contradicts representative democracy as virtually all Americans understand it. By Tom Hayden / The Rag Blog / July 29, 2013 Concerned citizens need to crack open the covers of C. Wright Mills' The Power Elite [ The IRS wants to the ability to yank your passport Obi-Wan Kabuki at AMERICAN KABUKI - 13 hours ago A reader forwarded an essay by Joe Nagel from an offshore ex-pat newsletter which I will quote in brief. Its another brick in the ever increasing police state we find this country becoming... Recently, the United States Senate passed a piece of legislation called the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act. Essentially, this is a transportation bill. The main focus is on the construction of roads and bridges. Title III of the act is a revenue provision concerning gas-guzzling cars, leaking underground storage tanks, import duties, and a number of other fees, tax... more ? Important Question: WHY Does Canada Support Israel Right Or Wrong? Northerntruthseeker at Northerntruthseeker - 14 hours ago Canada is Israeli occupied territory. It is so sad for me to make that statement, because it is absolutely true. When it comes to supporting the criminal and terrorist state of Israel, no matter how evil and sinister its actions may be, there is no more a staunch supporter of that horrible state than my country, Canada! I have long wondered about how this country, Canada, that used to, at one time, pride itself on being possibly the most peace loving and honest country on the face of planet Earth has now turned into nothing more than a Jewish controlled sock puppet that bends over... more ? Isidor Isaac Rabi Born On July 29, 1898 Saman Mohammadi at The Excavator - 14 hours ago I think physicists are the Peter Pans of the human race. They never grow up, and they keep their curiosity. - *Isidor Isaac Rabi*. *Wikipedia: * Isidor Isaac Rabi 29 July 1898 ? 11 January 1988 was a Galician-born American physicist and Nobel laureate, recognized in 1944 for his discovery of nuclear magnetic resonance, which is used in magnetic resonance imaging. He was also involved in the development of the cavity magnetron, which is used in microwave radar and microwave ovens. . . During World War II he worked on radar at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Radiati... more ? HISTORY / Bob Feldman : A People's History of Egypt, Part 4, 1849-1879 thorne dreyer at The Rag Blog - 15 hours ago Building the Suez Canal. Image from Modern School. A people's history: The movement to democratize Egypt Part 4: 1849-1879 period -- From free trade and the Suez Canal to bankruptcy and austerity By Bob Feldman / The Rag Blog / July 29, 2013 [With all the dramatic activity in Egypt, Bob Feldman's Rag Blog people's history series, The Movement to Democratize Egypt, could not be more Project XIII Update and App Demo Obi-Wan Kabuki at AMERICAN KABUKI - 15 hours ago Caleb Skinner discusses the updated app yes there was a bug in the pure cellular mode, now fixed and gives a walk through of the Project XIII app on the Windows 8 Phone. The video can also be found HERE on the Project XII web site. -AK Egyptian Journalist Yasser Rizq On Why The June 30 Revolution Was Not A Coup Saman Mohammadi at The Excavator - 15 hours ago * Opponents of ousted president Mohammed Morsi hold up a poster of the Egyptian defence minister, Gen Abdel Fattah El Sisi, with an Arabic caption that reads, ?The lion of Egypt?. AP * - Bradley Hope, * Is Egypt's defence minister El Sisi its president in waiting? * The National, July 22, 2013. *Egyptian Journalist Yasser Rizq On Why The June 30 Revolution Was Not A Coup. * The article below is by a high-level Egyptian journalist who had meetings with General Sisi and was in frequent contact with him prior to the dismissal of Morsi, so take his glowing portrayal with a g... more ? The Daily Near You? noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 15 hours ago Sacramento, California, USA. Thanks for stopping by. THE BATTLES WITHIN ISLAM: ISLAMIC SECTARIANISM AND MODERNITY Damian Lataan at Telling the History of the Twenty-First Century as it Really Is - 15 hours ago It?s clear that the strain of secular modernity within the Arab and Islamic world, particularly in North Africa and through the Middle East, is finally being felt as it conflicts with the conservatism of Islamic law and its struggle for control of the state. It is polarising the peoples of many Arab and Islamic nations where the repercussions of the Arab Spring revolutions are now being felt in a myriad of ways as it ripples through the region. Islam will likely remain the dominant religion of these regions even among the secular modernists who would prefer to be free of the constra... more ? Chief Justice Roberts does everything he can to see that the FISA court remains a trusty tool of the national-security state KenInNY at DownWithTyranny! - 15 hours ago *So you think you have a right to know something, anything, about the workings of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court? Maybe we need to, um, discuss this at greater length in, you know, secret.* * [The members of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court] all seem to have some type of a pretty conservative bent, I don't think that is what the Congress envisioned when giving the chief justice that authority. Maybe they didn't think about the ramifications of giving that much power to one person. * *-- TN Rep. Steve Cohen, to the NYT's Charlie Savage, in* Roberts's Picks Re... more ? Musical Interlude: Liquid Mind, ?Night Light? noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 15 hours ago Liquid Mind, ?Night Light? - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s5VzYAPBVJc How It Really Is noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 15 hours ago Chet Raymo, ?Speaking of Water?? noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 16 hours ago * ?Speaking of Water??* by Chet Raymo ?How many water molecules- H2O- are there in the world's oceans? This is the kind of time-wasting calculation I love doing, but I will leave it as an exercise for one of you. Look up the mass of a proton in grams. A water molecule has essentially the mass of 18 protons hydrogen=1, oxygen=8 protons + 8 neutrons; remember, this is an order of magnitude calculation . A cubic centimeter of water has by definition a mass of one gram. Divide for the number of water molecules in a cubic centimeter of water. How many cubic centimeters in the oc... more ? Unitary Scam Peter Cresswell at Not PC - 16 hours ago Readers might be interested to hear that Auckland Council?s coming Unitary Plan will ?punish you,? in the words of the Deputy Mayoress, if your building doesn?t get a tick from the Green Building Council. They don?t seem to have noticed that Green building certification is a scam: What [Green Building] designers deliver is what most [Green Building] building owners want?namely, green publicity, not energy savings. Do they know it?s a scam? Or care? [Hat tip Robert Tracinski] Content is copyright PC.BlogSpot.Com ? Please contact author for permission to republish: organon at i... more ? Now that's a cough suppressant! James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 16 hours ago This cough remedy contained codeine, chloroform and cannabis: Saudi prince defects from Royal family - small wind of change in Saudi Arabia ? Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 16 hours ago http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/saudi-prince-defects-from-royal-family-report.aspx?pageID=238&nID=51544&NewsCatID=352 Saudi prince defects from royal family: Report RIYADH Print PageSend to friend ? - - - - - Share Saudi Prince Khalid Bin Farhan al-Saud has announced his defection from the royal family, referring to his ?suffering? under reign of al-Saud and called on other princes to break their silence. ?With pride, I announce my defection from al-Saudi family in Saudi Arabia,? he wrote in his statement, according to a report from the Tehran-based Al-Alam news... more ? Bernanke forced to testify regarding Fed's AIG bailout..... JP Morgan fined 400 million by FERC for manipulating Power market.............. Steve Cohen still throws big party in the Hamptons despite SAC Capital Advisers is criminally indicted last week - the show must go on I guess........Meanwhile , the Fed has spent billions bailoing out foreign banks - guess we know whom the Fed serves - it's not main street folks ! . Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 16 hours ago Fed's Bernanke Should Testify in AIG Bailout Lawsuit, Judge RulesJuly 29, 2013 Print Version *Source:* Money News ? A U.S. judge said Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke should be required to testify in the lawsuit by the former chief of American International Group Inc., Maurice Hank Greenberg, against the United States over the insurer's 2008 bailout. Judge Thomas Wheeler of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims on Monday rejected the government's effort to keep Bernanke from being subjected to a deposition by Greenberg's Starr International Co. Wheeler called Bernanke a key witn... more ? Holy Mesopotamia Batman: First Grade CCSS vocabulary. Chris Cerrone at SCHOOLS MATTER @ THE CHALK FACE - 16 hours ago I have been giving the New York State Education Department?s new Common Core curriculum modules a study over the last few weeks. I see these modules as an insulting scripted curriculum that favors test preparation skills over learning. I teach middle school social studies so new reforms such as the Common Core have not had [?] INVENTION OF THE DAY: The device that makes wheelchairs obsolete Peter Cresswell at Not PC - 16 hours ago Sorry, I don?t know the inventor, but isn?t this another great example of technology making human life better. It makes you wonder just who humanity?s real benefactors really are, don?t you think. [Hat tip Terry V.] Content is copyright PC.BlogSpot.Com ? Please contact author for permission to republish: organon at ihug.co.nz DOWN TO THE DOCTOR?S: The Chan Ban & the Bill Banners Peter Cresswell at Not PC - 17 hours ago *1. This week, Libertarianz leader Dr Richard McGrath wonders aloud about Labour?s worshipping of the ugly goddess Xenophobia.* David Shearer's call to restrict ownership of existing homes to New Zealand residents is another direct assault on the free market, and the death knell for Labour's hopes of attracting Asian voters. Unlike Labour?s kneejerk xenophobia, my party has actually thought things through. We have a better and much simpler solution to housing unaffordability which focuses on supply, and makes Shearer?s foreigner-hatred unnecessary. It looks like this: - dere... more ? Fast Food workers strke - demand 100 percent wage increase ! Wonder when Walmart workers get the same idea ? Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 17 hours ago http://www.zerohedge.com/node/476974 US Fast Food Workers Strike, Demand 100% Pay Raise [image: Tyler Durden's picture] Submitted by Tyler Durden on 07/29/2013 18:40 -0400 - Detroit - New York City * It's noisy, it's really hot, fast, they rush you. Sometimes you don't even get breaks. All for $7.25? It's crazy, * is how one worker described the conditions that have caused her and the rest of America's fast-food employees to go on strike today. They *demand the right to unionize and better pay - calling for a raise in the minimum wage from $7.25 to $15*. Workers chanted,... more ? Just because you saw it on Facebook doesn't make it true Jody Paterson at A Closer Look: Jody Paterson - 18 hours ago I love almost everything about Facebook, from the photo-sharing and the cute-animal videos to the free emoticons you can use in your chats. But God help us if Facebook ends up being a news source for people in a post-newspaper world. The potential power of a medium like Facebook can?t be overstated in this viral age. Anything I write on my page can be shared in a heartbeat by any of my 1,522 Facebook friends, whose own friends and their friends? friends, and their friends? friends? friends can then spread the word even farther afield in a nano-second. No harm done if... more ? Israeli jets bomb Syria again? Another weapons convoy? Penny at Penny for your thoughts - 18 hours ago *UPDATE AT BOTTOM! * * * *As of this moment, I find this quite dubious*. And, am looking for more info on this most recent alleged Israeli airstrike. The story comes via Israeli media from opposition sources. Very questionable sourcing, indeed! *Report: Israel Bombs Another Syrian Weapons Convoy* Israeli air force jets bombed trucks carrying Syrian missiles bound for Hizbullah's warehouses in Lebanon, according to Syrian opposition sources. The sources, were cited Sunday by* Voice of Israel *radio's Arabic-language service, which was quoted by *i24 News*. The *Friday night bombing* r... more ? Untitled New Orleans Ladder at New Orleans Ladder - 18 hours ago *Oil and gas industry must pay for the damage it's caused ~Lt. General Russel L. Honore* *The Big Oil lawsuit and wetlands war ~Clancy Dubos, Gambit * Sea Level Rise from Climate Central gail zawacki at Wit's End - 19 hours ago written by Ben Strauss the entire article is here : We have two sea levels: the sea level of today, and the far higher sea level that is already being locked in for some distant tomorrow. In a new paper published Monday in the *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences* PNAS , I analyze the growth of the locked-in amount of sea level rise and other implications of Levermann and colleagues? work. This article and its interactive map are based on this new PNAS paper, and they include extended results. To begin with, it appears that the amount of carbon pollution to date has ... more ? healthy slow-cooker recipe of the week: help me make delicious lentil soup laura k at wmtc - 19 hours ago The healthy slow-cooker recipe of the week - now running about every-other week - has hit a snag: lentil soup. I love lentil soup, but my own is turning out just OK, not really delicious. After the first try was too bland, Stephanie suggested using allspice and more bay leaves. Excellent idea! I upped the bay leaves from three to six, and added allspice. Result: big improvement, but still not great. If you make delicious lentil soup, can you share your secrets? And if the secret is homemade stock, then I'm out of luck. More below. * * * * I'm still using the hell out of my slow... more ? Go VIRAL!!!! The Avenging Uterus, Penis Havers, and Other Cartoons of Feminist Backlash Cirze at Welcome to Pottersville 2 Blogging Against Fascism! - 19 hours ago Best laugh ever. And it may be the only way to win over the forces of evil. Let's send it around the world. The Avenging Uterus and Other Cartoons of Feminist BacklashMonday, 29 July 2013 By Matt Bors CLAP! CLAP! CLAP! CLAP! CLAP! CLAP! CLAP! CLAP! CLAP! Untitled New Orleans Ladder at New Orleans Ladder - 19 hours ago *FBI raids rescue 105 kids forced into prostitution* *Fugate-aboudit!: Landrieu, Vitter Tell Obama to Keep FEMA Head ~Stephen Babcock, NOLA DEFENDER* Ducklings! Charli Carpenter at Duck of Minerva - 19 hours ago I am delighted to report that Steve Saideman, Robert Kelly and Megan MacKenzie will be joining the ranks of permanent Duck contributors as of today. This leaves room for new guest bloggers: Stacie Goddard, Johannes Urpelainen and Jillian Schwedler. Stacie Goddard joins us from Wellesley College where she teaches international conflict, specializing in diplomacy, security Continue reading Icing can help back pain ... James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 19 hours ago OKLAHOMA RIGHT & LEFT PROTEST US SYRIA POLICY Bruce K. Gagnon at Organizing Notes - 19 hours ago I am very impressed to see this protest of folks from the right wing and left wing together in Oklahoma. They are taking on US Syria policy. We need more of this. When I was up in Augusta a couple of months ago for the drone hearings I met a bunch of guys from right wing groups there for gun control hearings. While we didn't agree on gun control we did find common ground on drone surveillance across Maine. One of them showed me a bumper sticker that read Protect my 2nd amendment rights to shoot down drones. I told one of the guys on that occasion that the corporate oligarch... more ? Hawai'i Senate Race: Brian Schatz's Record On Choice Is Far Better Than Colleen Hanabusa's DownWithTyranny at DownWithTyranny! - 19 hours ago Another wise Brain Schatz supporter More often than not, EMILY's List backs conservative women but they claim they only back ones who are pro-Choice. And most of the conservative women they endorse are indeed pro-Choice... kinda, sorta. Sometimes they're far less pro-Choice than the progressive men EMILY's List is always on a jihad against. Almost every race pitting one of the EMILY'S List conservative women against a progressive male, shows the male to be the more pro-Choice. And that's certainly the case in the Hawai'i Senate race this cycle in which EMILY's List has encouraged con... more ? Another Secret CON Fetus Fetishist noreply@blogger.com fern hill at DAMMIT JANET! - 20 hours ago From Lisa Kirbie, Warren Kinsella's gf, we learn that abortion has become an issue in at least one of the upcoming Ontario by-elections. Ali Chahbar, running for the Ontario PCs in London West, has garnered Campaign Life's highest rating. *Rating: Pro-life, pro-family* In a July 16th telco with a pro-life leader, Chahbar indicated that he is strongly pro-life and was raised with the value that human life is sacred. Otherwise pickings are slim for fetus fetishists in the five elections: only three candidates Chahbar and two representing the Family Coalition Party, aka Christian Tal... more ? Let's Retire the Once in a Hundred Years Label The Mound of Sound at The Disaffected Lib - 20 hours ago Calgary had a once in a hundred years flood in 2005. Eight years later it had a once in a hundred years flood that was three times worse. There's something reassuring about bad events labelled once in a hundred years because you know that you've survived something you won't have to deal with again in your lifetime. You've dodged that bullet. Don't worry, be happy. But the two flooding events that hit Toronto this year and the 2008 and 2013 floods that devastated Calgary should be cause enough to ditch the once in a century assurance about anything. *The Atlantic Citie... more ? We Have to End Police Killings and Brutality. The Mound of Sound at The Disaffected Lib - 20 hours ago Indulge me for a minute. Watch closely the video of Saturday night's killing of a kid aboard a Toronto streetcar. The young man was apparently holding a knife with a 3-inch blade and had ignored a police command to drop it. Ignore the officer with the gun doing the shooting. Watch the other officers at the scene as they were before, during, and after the shooting. Ignore everybody except those 'bystander' officers. I count four officers near the front door of the bus before the shooting begins. Off camera there are several others who enter the frame as the shots were fired... more ? Rape Threats, Twitter, and Masculine Crisis Phil at A Very Public Sociologist - 20 hours ago So, Caroline Criado-Perez, wages a successful campaign to get Jane Austen onto the ?10 note and a pledge that, in future, the Bank of England's designs will better reflect the actual look and shape of British society. A welcome happenstance for everyone who isn't white, male and posh. But not all. Unfortunately, the bigger story has been the rape and sexual assault threats she's been on the receiving end of. Caroline talks about some examples here. It goes without saying the volume of misogynistic abuse has generated a furious backlash, from folk bombarding key members of Twitter s... more ? ?My Life in Circles: Why Metadata is Incredibly Intimate? noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 20 hours ago * * *?My Life in Circles: * *Why Metadata is Incredibly Intimate?* By Matthew Harwood ?One of the most disingenuous arguments in the aftermath of the NSA spying revelations is that the American people shouldn't be concerned about the government hoovering up its sensitive information because it's only metadata- or a fancy way of saying data about the data. This is just metadata, Senate Intelligence Committee Chairwoman Dianne Feinstein assured the American people, referring to the NSA's bulk collection of Americans call records. There is no content involved. President Obama an... more ? Confessions of an Economic Hitman A transcript of the Lew Rockwell Show episode 187 with John Perkins. Obi-Wan Kabuki at AMERICAN KABUKI - 21 hours ago *Confessions of an Economic Hitman* *A transcript of the Lew Rockwell Show episode 187 with John Perkins.* July 29, 2013 *ANNOUNCER*: This is the Lew Rockwell Show. *ROCKWELL*: Well, what an honor it is to have as our guest today on the show, John Perkins. I think that if Hollywood weren?t so connected to the Pentagon, maybe there?d be a movie about him, staring George Clooney. But there?s not a movie because of the sorts of books he?s written, especially *Confessions of an Economic Hitman* that was on *The New York Times* best-seller list for a year and a half and tr... more ? ?The American Surveillance State Is Here. Can It Be Evaded?? noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 21 hours ago * * * ?The American Surveillance State Is Here.* * Can It Be Evaded??* By John W. Whitehead ?If, as it seems, we are in the process of becoming a totalitarian society in which the state apparatus is all-powerful, the ethics most important for the survival of the true, free, human individual would be: cheat, lie, evade, fake it, be elsewhere, forge documents, build improved electronic gadgets in your garage that?ll outwit the gadgets used by the authorities.? ? Philip K. Dick, author of Minority Report On any given day, the average American going about his daily business will be ... more ? Kessler?s streak ends but Dowd?s continues! bob somerby at the daily howler - 21 hours ago *MONDAY, JULY 29, 2013* *Same as it ever was:* Your Daily Howler just keeps getting results! Yesterday, for the second straight week, Glenn Kessler, the Washington Post Fact-Checker, handed his vaunted Pinocchios to a Republican, thus bowing to our will. Joe DiMaggio?s streak is safe. Not so, perhaps, Maureen Dowd?s. Yesterday, Dowd extended her current silly shit streak with another column on Anthony?s Weiner. She may be targeting her own record streak for waste-of-time columns, a record she established in the summer of 1999. That April, Dowd was handed the Pulitzer Prize for h... more ? Snowden's Dad SCHOOLS Obama, Pelosi, and Holder in Open Letter Obi-Wan Kabuki at AMERICAN KABUKI - 21 hours ago Obama Swearing to Uphold the Constitution Dees Illustration Sunday, July 28, 2013 *Snowden's Dad SCHOOLS Obama, Pelosi, and Holder in Open Letter* *Re: Civil Disobedience, Edward J. Snowden, and the Constitution* Dear Mr. President: You are acutely aware that the history of liberty is a history of civil disobedience to unjust laws or practices. As Edmund Burke sermonized, ?All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing.? Civil disobedience is not the first, but the last option. Henry David Thoreau wrote with profound restraint in Civil Disobedience: ?If... more ? Choosing your earth Sophia Love at AMERICAN KABUKI - 21 hours ago Every so often I stick my toe in the deep end of ?popular? culture just to gauge its relevance. Feeling especially reckless, I may go as deep as to read the Reddit comments or listen to call in AM radio shows. In the midst of one such dip today, a sudden thought appeared ?*We are already living on more than one earth*.? I?ve been holding out for one catalyzing event and a split. What I see today are many splits and multiple events. Perhaps we?ll all experience a singular, life altering moment, yet right now we are in the midst of a seamless, rapid, inescapable shift. I?v... more ? Trayvon/Zimmerman Paul Coker at News Spike - 21 hours ago Christopher Hitchens: Trayvon/Zimmerman from Spike1138 on Vimeo. Murder committed in the course of aggressively stalking a citizen by someone without a badge makes the case first, not second degree murder. This is a premeditated criminal act. Colon Paul Coker at News Spike - 21 hours ago On the morning of 9/11, almost every senior or notable Zionist on the face of the Earth was in either New York, Washington or London, within minutes of a TV Studio, making themselves available to be interviewed about what they thought the days events might auger and what they should do next. And none of them expressed surprise The most senior black and powerful black man in America wasn't. He had been sent to Columbia at short notice and was far from the President and far from having his finger on the pulse of the National Security States of America Colin Powell's endorsem... more ? Corroboration absent and judgment set aside James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 22 hours ago Anten v. Bhalerao, 2013 ONCA 499 uses the concept of corroboration to set aside a finding of incapacity. The testimony of a witness is said to be corroborated when it is shown to correspond with the representation of some other witness, or to comport with some facts otherwise known or established. Corroboration is seldom seen in modern Canadian law ? this is an unusual case where it is key: [28] It was common ground that s. 14 1 of the Evidence Act applied in this case, and that, in order for the Board to uphold the respondent?s finding of incapacity, the respondent?s evide... more ? A lot of old fogeys are watching the news! bob somerby at the daily howler - 22 hours ago *MONDAY, JULY 29, 2013* *Two cable tribes, Old and Older:* Very little seems to have changed. People who watch cable news still tend to be old fogies. Bill Carter did the report last week. The basic take-away reads like this: MSNBC versus Fox represents Old versus Older: CARTER 7/23/13 : Fox News continues to be near the top in cable television in terms of the number of viewers it attracts, but it is near the top in another category, too: the median age of its audience is among the oldest in television. For most of the television business?the segment that relies on advertising?t... more ? ?Have Credit-Based Money, Will Fail? noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 22 hours ago * * *?Have Credit-Based Money, Will Fail?* by Bill Bonner ?Over the last 10,000 years, humans have tried two different kinds of ?money.? They began with exchanges based on credit ? ?You give me a chicken? I?ll pay you back later, maybe by helping you build a new wigwam.? Then, when society became too large and extensive, they switched to gold and silver. The advantage of this was obvious: You didn?t have to remember who owed what to whom. You could settle up right away. ?You give me a chicken. I give you a little piece of silver. Done deal.? Periodically, governments were tempted... more ? HOME AND BACK TO WORK Bruce K. Gagnon at Organizing Notes - 22 hours ago I made it home at 1:00 am this morning. I could barely make it up the stairs with my bags. I slept until 11:00 am and had to get to work doing some legal stuff for my most recent arrest at Hancock Field drone base in Syracuse, New York. As it is I am late on it anyway. When I came through passport control upon reentering the US at the Dallas airport yesterday the guy at the booth ran my passport into his computer, marked a big red I on my reentry form, and said, Come with me. My first thought was here we go again. The same thing happened to me when I came back from our Glo... more ? Catch of the Day Jonathan Bernstein at A plain blog about politics - 22 hours ago Great Ezra Klein item defending August recess. For Congress that is. As he points out, Congress for the most part is very much at work during what they try to call a district work period. I'm not sure that all 535 Members of Congress are intense hard workers, but in my first and second hand experience I've known a fair number of people who worked on the Hill , not to mention what more careful research has found, the overwhelming majority work hard at their jobs. Doesn't mean they are all great at it; we've all known people who work hard but don't get anything done! The one thing... more ? UHC 17: First, Second and Third Lines of UHC for the Poor Nonoy Oplas at Government and Taxes - 22 hours ago Later today, I will attend a round table discussion on Health System Shapers HSS , Patients and Consumers Sector, at the Department of Health DOH main office. The goal of this and related fora is to further fine tune the government?s universal health care UHC goal. Last week, I also attended the two-days July 25-26 ?Policy Dialogue on UHC and Access to Medicines ? held at the Asian Institute of Management AIM in Makati. Here are two of the definitions or presentations about UHC. This one is from DOH UnderSec. Madeleine ?Madz? de Rosas Valera in her presentation, ?The Philip... more ? Untitled New Orleans Ladder at New Orleans Ladder - 22 hours ago *We are the ones who knock ~Moosedenied* *~Life is a terminal disease, and while in the back of our minds we all know that sooner or later the other shoe will inevitably drop, that's no reason to be a simpering douchebag about it in the meantime. Because it damn sure ain't happening today. Not when there's so much cooking still to be done. Success to be achieved. Jerks to stick it to. Not sure when or why I lost track of that, but a big high five to AWD for bringing a little of that much-needed crystal blue persuasion and snapping me out of my apparent offseason funk. You, sir, are m... more ? Sharing Good Information Paul Coker at News Spike - 23 hours ago * * * He who speaks the truth will be chased out of nine villages * *- Turkish Proverb* * * * * * ...in your own community, you speak privately to your colleagues, some of whom certainly feel as you do; * *but what do they say?* * * * They say, * *?It?s not so bad? * *or ?You?re seeing things? * *or ?You?re an alarmist.?* * * * And you are an alarmist. * * * *You are saying that this must lead to this, and you can?t prove it. * * * *These are the beginnings, yes; * *but how do you know for sure when you don?t know the end, and how do you know, or even surmise, the end?* * * *On the one h... more ? If I use ALEC I can Get More Hits 2old2care at Because I Can - 23 hours ago *Well....* evidently the broo-haha around ALEC has become mainstream enough that people think they can throw ALEC in the title for more exposure - more hits to their webpage. Take this for example - published on 7/27 ALEC Distracts Electorate From Economy, Jobs; Is It Too Late? ALEC Distracts Electorate From Economy, Jobs ALEC Distracts Electorate Really? REALLY? Hmmm - tell me more. After reading the whole article - FOUR page in Word single spaced - here's all he has to say about ALEC. *ALEC Distracts Electorate From Economy, Jobs; Is It Too Late?* July 27, 2013 By Harvey ... more ? Coming Soon, Your Eyes on the World The Mound of Sound at The Disaffected Lib - 23 hours ago Astronaut Chris Hadfield reconnected countless millions of people to the wonders of space. His space station performance of the David Bowie classic Space Oddity has racked up more than 17-million hits on YouTube since its release two months ago. Now two Vancouver brothers have come up with a venture to let you share something of the experience that crews of the space station enjoy. Their company has a deal to install and operate two cameras that will be attached to the space station and will stream real time video back to us on *terra firma*. One camera will be fixed. The ... more ? Peace is prized above victory Oberon at GlobaLove Think Tank - 23 hours ago What's Old Is New Again. The Return of the Workhouse. The Mound of Sound at The Disaffected Lib - 23 hours ago Stephen Harper has a prison fetish. Despite steady declines in crime rates in Canada over the past four decades, Steve is hell bent on building new prisons. We like to mock him for this but maybe we shouldn't be so quick to dismiss it as the product of a whacked-out fundamentalist mind. Harper just might be introducing Canada to a project that's well underway in the United States - the return of the workhouse and the transformation of the poor into profitable slave labour. That, at least, is the way Chris Hedges sees it. *Poor people, especially those of color, are worth no... more ? The strange case of Alexei Navalny Penny at Penny for your thoughts - 23 hours ago *American commentators apply an entirely different yardstick to Navalny, while their peer group back home casts Anthony Weiner as the original sinner. * MK Bhadrakumer @ Russia India Report *I am not putting this news up because of concern for Anthony Weiner. What this article shows, clearly, is that the NATO/corporate controlled western media is always on message for the imperial war/destabilization agenda. While Weiner is chastized, as he should be. Navalny is lionized and he should not be. What is the difference? Only the political agenda.* *The indiscretion of Anthony Weine... more ? Blue America Welcomes Barbara Buono DownWithTyranny at DownWithTyranny! - 23 hours ago Blue America primarily gets involved with congressional races, but after Digby, John and I met New Jersey state Senator Barbara Buono-- and reflected on the dangers of Chris Christie-- not just in the Garden State, but across America-- we opened this special new ActBlue page for progressive gubernatorial candidates. Earlier today Barbara announced her choice of Milly Silva to run for lieutenant governor, which adds a charismatic young Hispanic woman labor leader an executive vice president of the SEIU who shares her working class background to the Democratic ticket. And it pote... more ? What Religion Makes You Better? Answer Given By The Dali Lama Stranger in a Strange Land at Stranger in a Strange Land - 1 day ago Source: http://notesalongthepath.com/2013/07/28/what-religion-makes-me-better-from-the-dalai-lama/ Electricity Protests Spread To 5 Of Iraq?s Provinces Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 1 day ago The summer months have brought about Iraq?s seasonal hot weather. That has also led to a new wave of protests over power shortages for the third time in four years. The demonstrations started in Nasiriyah in Dhi Qar in early June 2013, and have since spread to Basra, Muthanna, Maysan, and Wasit governorates. They have charged the government with incompetence and corruption, and asked for Deputy Premier Shahristani who is in charge of energy policy and Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki to step down. The growing protests have applied enough pressure on Baghdad that Maliki, Shahristani, ... more ? Saturday In The Park Southern Man at Southern Man - 1 day ago Southern Man and a few friends drove an hour northwest to one of the state parks for a day of fun. The park entrance. There was a geocache hidden in those trees to the right. Girls cannot park. At the lodge. Photo by a friendly passer-by. Mini golf. The winner! Lunch. Another geocache was hidden near this mural. A good time was had by all. A Billion Bullets gail zawacki at Wit's End - 1 day ago I don't have television, so I found these compilations of news reports quite entertaining. There is a strange confluence of far right and far left - neither trusts the government, with good reason. The difference is the crackpot right thinks the government is militarizing the police and stripping away legal protections because there is a conspiracy to enslave the citizens and impose a New World Order - whereas the left is or so I imagine more concerned that the government is anticipating civil unrest because the climate is dangerously destabilized which will lead to empty shel... more ? Reza Aslan and the nearly hilarious disassembly of Fox-News presenter Lauren Green address-withheld@my.opera.com.invalid Dr. John v. Kampen at - 1 day ago Link: http://youtu.be/YY92TV4_Wc0 - click in picture to start this film! Reza Aslan's new book: 'Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth' made him appear in Rupert Murdock's Fox News trying to outfox Aslan in an item called Spirited Debate , presented by Lauren Green. She will remember! Rightwing and/or neo-conservative Christian journalism are living a race to the bottom of news-presenting these days. Their associated printed media aren't precisely flourishing anymore. People are getting sick and tired of often unsubstantiated, biased quasi-'news facts' where they can... more ? Dubliners: What happens as the bogus tale spreads! bob somerby at the daily howler - 1 day ago *MONDAY, JULY 29, 2013* *To us, this smells like sadism:* There is no perfect set of rules explaining how best to raise a child. What should you tell a child about the dangers the world presents? *When *should he or she be told about those dangers? How *much* should a child be told? In how much detail? There is no perfect set of rules to answer such questions for parents. That said, we thought Slate?s recent account of child-reading in liberal brainiac Cambridge was extremely sad and carried an obvious smell. To us, there was a scent of sadism in the air as we read the first-pers... more ? Obama Is Complicit in Nation's Violent, Discriminatory Behavior, Laws Roberto Rodriguez at Dr Cintli - 1 day ago The president and the attorney general of the United States want to re-examine the nation's stand your ground laws. That should have been last year's news. As a result of the George Zimmerman verdict, the president also wants all of us to have a conversation, not necessarily a national conversation but conversations within our own families and churches and, most especially, with ourselves about our own biases. We should all be able all do that, but not at the expense of a national conversation that leads to a change in - not simply in attitudes or biases - but in discriminatory ... more ? Time to play? James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 1 day ago Deference to findings of fact James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 1 day ago Barclays Bank PLC v. Devonshire Trust, 2013 ONCA 494: [90] Second, findings of fact by the trial judge attract deference on appeal and are only reviewable by this court if they reveal palpable and overriding error: *Waxman v. Waxman* 2004 , 186 O.A.C. 201 C.A. , at para. 291. This standard applies to all factual findings, whether based on credibility assessments, the weighing of competing evidence, expert evidence, or the drawing of inferences from primary facts: see *Waxman*, at paras. 359-60. Findings of fact grounded in credibility assessments are particularly difficult t... more ? Astronomical Lughnasadh Paul Coker at News Spike - 1 day ago I quote The Enemy: In the cross-quarter reckoning of former NASA scientist Robert Gillespie, Northern Lughnasadh occurs when the Sun's ecliptic longitude/Earth's heliocentric longitude reaches 135 degrees. In 2013 this will occur at *8:21 UTC on August 7.* *WARNING: * *The following footage is quoted from Charles Manson: Superstar , a documentary prepared by self-described Satanists and members of the Church of Satan * * * though not Acquino's Temple of Set NATO/NSA/CIA/Processean offshoot* I don't think * * * *It may contain disinformation, for that reason, but I sus... more ? MEET VFP Bruce K. Gagnon at Organizing Notes - 1 day ago Searching for Occupy met up with Veterans for Peace all across the country. They had plenty to say about War and Peace as well as the War on Mother Earth and all humanity. Israel Matzav: What a 'Palestinian negotiator's Facebook page says about the chances for peace Not a sheep at Not a sheep - 1 day ago If Dr. Mohammed Shtayyeh, one of the two 'negotiators' representing 'Moderate' 'Palestinian' President Abbas doesn't want a two state solution why should Israel take negotiations seriously? More here http://israelmatzav.blogspot.co.uk/2013/07/what-palestinian-negotiators-facebook.html?utm_source=twitterfeed&utm_medium=twitter&m=1 Definitely not more on the BBC who are so anti-Israel it's not even disputable. Housekeeping Jonathan Bernstein at A plain blog about politics - 1 day ago Not sure how much I'll post today and tomorrow because Greg is taking a couple days off, so I'll be over there more than usual. Meanwhile, over the weekend we here at Plain Blog celebrated a birthday; I've been doing this four years, now. Woo! Easy slogan for the occasion: Four More Years! Thanks are due: to Greg, to the other folks at the Post and at Salon and TAP; to John and the other political science bloggers; to all the great commenters here; and especially to those who have supported Plain Blog with kind words and links. Thank you! I suppose I should thank all the politician... more ? Posted by opit at 10:59 am No comments: Post a Comment Newer Post Older Post Home Subscribe to: Post Comments Atom Compliment Posed as Problem Free Country Notes Colorful fall landscapes - Flickr Home Page opitslinkfest.blogspot.ca Opit's LinkFest! Chemtrails Exposed : Global Engineering PsyOps Climate of FUD Time to end the bias at the Met office The futility of climate models The missing link in the Climate Change Debate Debate ? I can't find any ! Criminalisation of Islam in British Media Elitocide : Bangladesh Was there an Islamic'Genocide' of Hindus ? And who were these 'Islamic' murderers ? Propaganda during the British Raj special note of Harjas Kaur's comment Opit's Notes - Old Sidebar Lists 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Link Love First Nations' cancer rates linked to oilsands toxins in wild food tarsands Magnetic cleanup of oil spill The Green Fraud How I lost 800 quid through PayPal 'Renewables' : expensive and unstable...German experience Canadian ship sourced spill preparedness Primer on Bush Family anh Pages Law - and Failure to Convict Gay/Religion Belief,Wonder & Dogma Uranium Dust Climatism Undiscovered Outrage 'Meddling' The Great Game Online Media Environmental Challenges Broken Search - Corexit Water NSA was so secret its name was hidden BiPartisan Tyranny History of Education Clean Coal Air War Subscribe To Posts Comments Translate Blog Archive ?? 2015 34 ?? January 34 ?? 2014 1012 ?? December 62 ?? November 52 ?? October 70 ?? September 69 ?? August 60 ?? July 60 ?? June 76 ?? May 104 ?? April 105 ?? March 119 ?? February 104 ?? January 131 ?? 2013 1585 ?? December 118 ?? November 111 ?? October 123 ?? September 130 ?? August 138 ?? July 146 31 July - Blogs I'm Following II 31 July - The View 31 July - My Yahoo! 31 July - Blogs I'm Following 30 July - Netvibes V 30 July - Netvibes IV 30 July - Netvibes III 30 Netvibes II 30 July - Netvibes I 30 July - Blogs I'm Following II 30 July - Blogs I'm Following 30 July - Notes Washington Times - 27 July 29 July - Blogs I'm Following II 29 July - Noted Articles Stumble Upon 29 July - Blogs I'm Following 28 July - Blogs I'm Following II 28 July - iGoogle II 28 July - iGoogle 28 July - RSS SnapShot! III 28 July - RSS SnapShot! II 28 July - RSS SnapShot! I 28 July - Blogs I'm Following 27 July - Blogs I'm Following II 27 July - Blogs I'm Following 26 July - My Yahoo! 26 July - My Feedly! 26 July - Blogs I'm Following II 26 July - Breaking News 26 July - Netvibes V 26 July - Netvibes IV 26 July - Netvibes III 26 July - Netvibes II 26 July - Netvibes I 26 July - Blogs I'm Following 25 July - Blogs I'm Following II 25 July - Quick Notes 25 July - Blogs I'm Following 24 July - My Feedly! 24 July - My Yahoo! 24 July - Blogs I'm Following II 24 July - The View 24 July - Blogs I'm Following 23 July - Blogs I'm Following II 23 July - Blogs I'm Following 23 July - The View 23 July - How Tweet! 22 July - RSS SnapShot! III 22 July - RSS SnapShot! II 22 July - RSS SnapShot! I 22 July- Blogs I'm Following 21July - Blogs i'm Following II 21 July - My Feedly! 21 July - Blogs I'm Following 20 July - My Yahoo! 20 July - Blogs I'm Following II 20 July - Blogs I'm Following 19 July - Blogs I'm Following II 19 July - Blogs I'm Following 18 July - The View on Facebook 18 July - Blogs I'm Following II Redress - Feedly 18 July - Blogs I'm Following 18 July - RSS SnapShot! III 18 July - RSS SnapShot! II 18 July - RSS SnapShot! I 17 July - Blogs I'm Following II 17 July - The View 16 July - iGoogle I 17 July - Blogs I'm Following 16 July - My Yahoo! 16 July - Blogs I'm Following III 16 July - Blogs I'm Following II 16 July - Blogs I'm Following 15 July - Blogs I'm Following 14 July - Blogs I'm Following II 14 July - Blogs I'm Following 13 July - Blogs I'm Following II 13 July - The View 13 July - Blogs I'm Following 13 July - My Yahoo! 13 July - Netvibes 5 13 July - Netvibes 4 13 July - Netvibes 3 13 July - Netvibes 2 13 July - Netvibes 1 12 July - My Feedly! 12 July - Blogs I'm Following II 12 July - Blogs I'm Following 11 July - Blogs I'm Following II 11 July - Blogs I'm Following 10 July - Blogs I'm Following II 10 July - iGoogle II 10 July - iGoogle I 10 July - MyYahoo! 10 July - My Feedly! 10 July - Blogs I'm Following 10 July - News Notes 10 July - Big Think 10 July - RSS SnapShot! III 10 July - RSS SnapShot! II 10 July - RSS SnapShot! I FRESH the Movie 10 July - Jesse Ventura 9 July - Gasland II on Industry Influence on Gover... 9 July - Blogs I'm Following II 9 July - News Notes 9 July - MSM 9 July - Netvibes 5 9 July - Netvibes 4 9 July - Netvibes 3 9 July - Netvibes 2 9 July - Netvibes I 9 July - Blogs I'm Following 8 July - Blogs I'm Following 7 July - Blogs I'm Following II 7 July - Blogs I'm Following 6 July - Blogs I'm Following II 6 July - My Yahoo! 6 July - Blogs I'm Following 5 July - Blogs I'm Following II 5 July - My Feedly! 5 July - RSS SnapShot! III 5 July - RSS SnapShot! II 5 July - RSS SnapShot! I 5 July - Blogs I'm Following 4 July - Blogs I'm Following II 4 July - My Feedly! 4 July - Blogs I'm Following 3 July - My Yahoo! 3 July - Blogs I'm Following II 3 July - Breaking News 3 July - Netvibes 5 3 July - Netvibes 4 3 July - Blogs I'm Following 3 July - Netvibes 3 3 July - Netvibes 2 3 July - Netvibes I 3 July - News and MSM 2 July - Blogs I'm Following News Notes iGoogle II iGoogle I 1 July - Blogs I'm Following II 1 July - Blogs I'm Following ?? June 139 ?? May 154 ?? April 167 ?? March 151 ?? February 130 ?? January 78 ?? 2012 2 ?? June 2 ?? 2011 4 ?? December 1 ?? September 3 ?? 2010 17 ?? September 14 ?? April 3 ?? 2009 25 ?? December 7 ?? November 6 ?? October 10 ?? September 2 About Me opit I've been 'around' for a few years now, pursuing the shifting goal of a sharable home-made surfers resource site focused on ease of use and variety of mostly adult whoa : I didn't say prurient content. View my complete profile Followers Search This Blog Loading... Total Pageviews Pages Home