1. ?They Put Cancer Viruses Into Our Vaccines? 2. ?ATM Machines Will Someday Use Facial Recognition Technology? For much more on this, please see my previous article entitled ?Human-Animal Hybrids: Sick And Twisted Chimeras Are Being Created In Labs All Over The Planet?. 6. ?Obama Is Making Government Employees Spy On One Another? 7. ?Pro Wrestling Is Fake? Texas will always have plenty of water, right? -David Rockefeller: ?The negative impact of population growth on all of our planetary ecosystems is becoming appallingly evident.? -CNN Founder Ted Turner: ?A total world population of 250-300 million people, a 95% decline from present levels, would be ideal.? -Paul Ehrlich, a former science adviser to president George W. Bush and the author of ?The Population Bomb?: ?To our minds, the fundamental cure, reducing the scale of the human enterprise including the size of the population to keep its aggregate consumption within the carrying capacity of Earth is obvious but too much neglected or denied? -Barack Obama?s primary science adviser,?John P. Holdren: ?The development of a long-term sterilizing capsule that could be implanted under the skin and removed when pregnancy is desired opens additional possibilities for coercive fertility control. The capsule could be implanted at puberty and might be removable, with official permission, for a limited number of births.? -HBO personality Bill Maher: ?I?m pro-choice, I?m for assisted suicide, I?m for regular suicide, I?m for whatever gets the freeway moving ? that?s what I?m for. It?s too crowded, the planet is too crowded and we need to promote death.? The Federal Reserve is a private banking cartel that was created by the bankers and that serves the interest of the bankers.? It was designed to perpetually increase the U.S. national debt and to perpetually create inflation.? Unfortunately, it has done a great job on both counts.? Since the Federal Reserve was created back in 1913, the U.S. national debt has gotten?more than 5000 times larger, and the value of the U.S. dollar has fallen?by more than 96 percent.