I'm going to Korea in August and have a 20 hour layover in Narita. I was looking forward to going out of the airport to try Japanese cuisine and look around, but some of my friends are telling me the radioactive contamination levels in japan is more serious than most people are aware. I tried googling it and most articles say there is nothing to worry about, but it's not impossible that the government is lying. I've seen some postings of Japanese people living in Japan that it is really serious and not all foods are getting thoroughly tested. I don't know.. I don't know what to believe. You will be exposed to more radiation from cosmics on the flight to Japan than you ever could be exposed to in Japan unless some natural or unnatural disaster happens when you are there. Ask your friends where the source of their information is and I would be willing to bet the sources cannot be authenticated to be reliable, such as from government, academic or even amateurs taking precise ionizing radiation readings on the ground in Japan. I am not trying to say your friends are lying to you but check their sources. Tokyo has a population much larger than that of New York and although people here are very concerned about radiation contamination and have been carefully following the news and reports, apart from a panicky few handful who fled right after the accident, no one has moved. Not because we are brave or dumb or both , not because we don't have any other choice, but because it's safe. Before listening to some wild rumors somewhat similar to Michael Jackson being an extraterrestrial and Elvis still alive and well, read recommendations from your Embassy in Tokyo and international health organizations, information from local Japanese authorities, and some reliable news reports. Please check other tripadvisor postings, as there are hundreds of threads already, and I think many people are rather fed up of answering to such questions. Yes, the radioactive level in some area of Japan is still very high, particularly the area Fukushima Daiichi Nuke Plant is located: show you our government mapping on radioactive level. In Tokyo, the average radiation is 0.05 micro Sv/hour. Narita A/P area is still a little bit higher with 0.1micro Sv. If you believe this level is suspicious to affect your body, you will not be coming to Japan. Some radiation is received by X ray inspection: that amount is said to be 0.1 to 0.3 mili Sv for brest inspection: Xray scanning and stomach Xray imaging is much higher. You can calculate the amount we have survived in Tokyo in a year: 0.00005x24x365=0.4mili Sv. In other words, if you have X ray inspection at an US airport for security inspection, the amount of radiation received is almost the same as we do receive in Tokyo in a year. I can also note that normally the level acceptable for human being is 5 mili Sv/year.