oldephartte in training : 16 July - Blogs I'm Following II oldephartte in training Archives for RSS Returns : History as Seen by Bloggers Tuesday, July 16, 2013 16 July - Blogs I'm Following II English: Pete Seeger at age 88 photographed on 6-16-07 at the Clearwater Festival 2007 by Anthony Pepitone Photo credit: Wikipedia 11:35am MDST?? Approximately. I had left the room when the Dashboard had seemingly decided I was Following no blogs...to find that had changed Honduras Lenca Indigenous leader killed by Army brendanorrell@gmail.com at CENSORED NEWS - 6 minutes ago By Real World Radio On Monday July 15th, while the Lenca community of Rio Blanco, in Honduras, marked 106 days of resistance to the building of Agua Zarca hydroelectric dam, the Army indiscriminately shot at the demonstrators killing one of the leaders of the resistance, Tomas Garcia, and seriously injuring his son. Tomas was a Lenca indigenous leader who was part of his community?s ?Getting Serious About Freedom? noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 15 minutes ago * * *?Getting Serious About Freedom?* by Jeffrey Tucker ?Is there anything that we can do to stop the government?s data mining of our email, phone calls, and other digital habits? I moderated an entire panel on this subject during FreedomFest in Las Vegas last week. The room was packed from front to back, standing room only. Clearly, there is a great deal of interest in the topic. Or maybe ?fear? is a better word. No matter how much people have come to expect that government is not really protecting us, it is still destabilizing to realize that our government is conspiring agains... more ? Will New Jersey Voters Look Beyond The Silly Hype And Examine Chris Christie's Miserable Economic Record-- And Barbara Buono's Excellent One? DownWithTyranny at DownWithTyranny! - 31 minutes ago Sunday evening New Jersey state Senator and gubernatorial candidate Barbara Buono announced her economic plan for the state by releasing the above video criticizing Chris Christie, who hasn't done a thing for the state's economy aside from reacting to crises. And making the economic conditions in the state *worse*! He's basically just another buffoon-- albeit a loudmouthed one-- with no vision except to serve the interests of the already wealthy and powerful. Below is Buono's video of where she sees the state going when she's governor; it's worth watching. In the past *DWT* has c... more ? ?Coup d?Etat? noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 46 minutes ago * * *?Coup d?Etat?* by Paul Craig Roberts Treason doth never prosper: what's the reason? Why, if it prosper, none dare call it treason. - John Harrington The American people have suffered a coup d?etat, but they are hesitant to acknowledge it. The regime ruling in Washington today lacks constitutional and legal legitimacy. Americans are ruled by usurpers who claim that the executive branch is above the law and that the US Constitution is a mere ?scrap of paper.? An unconstitutional government is an illegitimate government. The oath of allegiance requires defense of the Con... more ? An order dismissing a motion for contempt is interlocutory James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 49 minutes ago Simmonds v. Simmonds, 2013 ONCA 479: [3] The appellant relies on *Pimiskern v. Brophey**,* 2013 O.J. No. 505 to argue that an order dismissing a motion for contempt is a final order. [4] The respondent concedes that an order finding contempt is a final order but argues that because the motion judge dismissed the motion for contempt, the motion judge's order is interlocutory and not binding on the trial judge, and that an appeal accordingly does not lie to this court. Dishonesty gives cause for termination in financial industry James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 49 minutes ago Agostino v. Gary Bean Securities Ltd., 2013 ONSC 6918 holds: [85] I recognize that dishonesty does not automatically mean that an employer has cause for dismissal. Writing on behalf of a unanimous court in *McKinley v. BC Tel*, 2001 SCC 38 CanLII , [2001] 2 S.C.R. 161, Iacobucci J. said at para. 57: ?I favour an analytical framework that examines each case on its own particular facts and circumstances and considers the nature and seriousness of the dishonesty in order to assess whether it is reconcilable with sustaining the employment relationship. Such an approach mi... more ? Toshi Seeger?s remarkable life! bob somerby at the daily howler - 55 minutes ago *TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2013* *And her family history:* Toshi Seeger died last week at the age of 91. She and her husband, Pete Seeger, had been married for more than seventy years. Impossibly enough, they met at a square dance. In 1938! Toshi Seeger led a remarkable life. Beyond that, her family history is simply astounding. This is the New York Times? account of her life. The Washington Post said this. Toshi Seeger, wife, muse and ally of Pete Seeger, dies at 91. The Seeger family brims with remarkable stories. The connection between the Seegers and Elizabeth Cotten is like somet... more ? The Breakdown Of The Iraqi Army?s Logistics Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 58 minutes ago Given the dire security situation that Iraq faced from 2003-2008 it was no surprise that the United States gave little attention to the Iraqi Army?s logistics. It wasn?t until several years after the U.S. invasion that the Americans finally began planning and contracting to develop Iraq?s support network, so that it could maintain its forces and equipment. This went through huge problems including the complete un-interest amongst the Iraqi military leadership for this task. By the time the U.S. withdrew its forces in 2011, several supply depots had been established and a computeriz... more ? AL JAZEERA VIDEO: Iraq Suffers Biggest Wave Of Violence In Years Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 58 minutes ago EURONEWS VIDEO: Bombing Across Iraq Leaves Dozens Dead In Mainly Shi'ite Towns Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 1 hour ago REUTERS VIDEO: More Than 30 Dead in Wave of Iraq Attacks Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 1 hour ago Apology to Bolivia Carlos at Viva Bolivia - 1 hour ago The embarrassing incident in Europe over the Bolivian plane has caused waves internationally. The following is from the BBC in London: Four South American countries say they will recall some of their ambassadors after the Bolivian president's plane was banned from European airspace. Evo Morales' plane, returning from Russia, was rerouted to Austria, amid rumours that American fugitive Edward Snowden was on board. Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela and Uruguay say the incident violated international law. Envoys will be recalled from France, Spain, Portugal and Italy, they say. Mr S... more ? It's Tuesday... Adrienne at Adrienne's Corner - 1 hour ago *what's going on.* Mychal Massie: * Obama's veiled threats against We the People* * * Doug Ross: *NEW STUDY: Obamacare to destroy up to 1 million low-wage jobs and completely bankrupt Medicaid* Moonbattery: *America?s Ongoing Kristallnacht* The Last Refuge: *A Truth Adverse Media Will Drop Zimmerman Soon ? Eric Holder Has Already Made That Decision, He?s Just Saving Face For ?My People? * Asylum Watch: * Squeezing The Last Drop Out Of Private Sector Employees * Conservative Hideout: *Sadly, the Trayvon Martin Violence Begins: People Attacked, Vandalism, News Crew Attacked* A... more ? Jal Mehta?s The Allure of Order Explains the Root Cause of D?j? vu, All Over Again John Thompson at SCHOOLS MATTER @ THE CHALK FACE - 1 hour ago I have an intellectual understanding of how the contemporary ?reform? movement propelled schools to leap into the early 20th century. But, I?ve never really grasped why 21st century accountability hawks sought to turn schools into a modern-day version of the Model T assembly line. After reading Jal Mehta?s The Allure of Order, I understand. Mehta [?] Was Zimmerman told to stay in his car? bob somerby at the daily howler - 1 hour ago *TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2013* *The pundit corps? favorite fake fact:* It?s now the norm in our broken culture: Dishonest elites invent fake facts about every high-profile topic. Everyone ends up reciting these facts, even though they are bogus. Here are the three most basic facts about the killing of Trayvon Martin. If you can memorize these statements, you too can be a big pundit: *George Zimmerman was told to stay in his car. Trayvon Martin was armed with nothing but Skittles and iced tea. Martin was an innocent child who did nothing wrong.* If you can memorize those remarks, you too c... more ? ALEC Does NOT Support Their Own Legislation 2old2care at Because I Can - 1 hour ago Two days ago I told you when push came to shove - ALEC would start lying about the Stand Your Ground Issue and their relationship to the NRA. A couple of months ago - ALEC didn't want to be called ALEC anymore. NOW They do not support the legislation which they distribute to their members. When asked Monday about ALEC's current position, Bill Meierling, senior director of public affairs at the organization, emailed us this response: The American Legislative Exchange Council does not support Stand Your Ground policies. The Council focuses solely on pro-growth, economic issues to ... more ? ACTION: ALEC Thurs 7/18 Arlington VA 2old2care at Because I Can - 1 hour ago *Passing this on cause I was asked to.* *Don't really want to.* *Too much emotion out there right now - I DON'T think this is a good idea.* *Keep it on the streets - for your own safety, do NOT enter that building. * *Keep it nonviolent* *BUT keep it loud.* * * *Thanks to ALEC Ratified Legislation Zimmerman May Have Walked Free* *What is ALEC doing this week? * *Moving to a new headquarters and throwing themselves a party!* *JOIN US AND PROTEST STAND YOUR GROUND AND VOTER SUPPRESSION* *What:* ALEC, the corporate front group that has pushed hundreds of state laws written by specia... more ? Tiwesd?g: the Left-hand of Linkage Daniel Nexon at Duck of Minerva - 1 hour ago Henry Farrell and Abe Newman have a new piece at Foreign Affairs Online on the NSA?s surveillance of European Union officials. They argue, among other things, that: ?For the last several years, those interested in promoting intelligence sharing with the United States have been winning. If European governments now decide to curtail that cooperation ? a Continue reading Today Is Apparently Not a Good Day to Die Jonathan Bernstein at A plain blog about politics - 1 hour ago ...in a Senate nuclear war, that is. We seem to have a tentative deal. According to various reports here's Greg's and tweets, it appears that the deal involves: 1 Cordray gets cloture, ending that nullification battle 2 The other regular nominees EPA, Labor get cloture 3 The NLRB nominees are withdrawn, and replaced; the new nominees get cloture in time to be in place by the time they're needed for NLRB to function 4 No specific promises or commitments for the future; Reid retains the possibility of going nuclear later in the Congress if nomination obstruction contin... more ? From Trayvon to Sharlene jurassicpork at Welcome Back to Pottersville - 1 hour ago George Zimmerman Trial Juror To Write Book http://t.co/OUKqiEgG8d via @galleycat ? sharlene martin @sharlenemartin July 15, 2013 Being a writer of no mean talent, it outraged me, as I'm sure it had other real writers, that Juror B37, as she's been dubbed, got signed by a literary agent within hours of last Saturday's verdict. The turnaround time between the jury's verdict being read and the announcement of this deal was breathless and audacious even for a nation of money-grubbing, sociopathic opportunists like the United States. Sharlene Martin's catapulting of her body fro... more ? The New York Times? latest hapless professor! bob somerby at the daily howler - 2 hours ago *TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2013* *Intellectual norms tumbling down:* Over the past thirty years, our society?s intellectual norms have been falling way down. By now, our various tribes get to make up their facts. Routinely, the simplest logic is discarded as our tribes tell preferred tales. You can see this process on cable?but you can also see it unfold in the New York Times. Consider the latest op-ed column from the Times? latest hapless professor. Ekow Yankah is a professor at Yeshiva University?s Cardozo School of Law. Having read his column today, we find that fact unsettling. Yankah... more ? Putin on Snowden- An interesting perspective Penny at Penny for your thoughts - 2 hours ago [image: Edward Snowden Russia China Cuba Ecuador] Mr Snowden. In my opinion, he didn't leak anything that was new, shocking or startling. I liked that he brought attention to the government spying on all of our lives. The intrusion is despicable. That is good. Raising awareness is always good. However, the media circus that surrounds him is where the real show lies. The media circus is the distraction. Whatever good should have come out of the awareness raised has been overshadowed by the where in the world is Snowden distraction show. Mr Putin talks about the situation surro... more ? Teen Tweet Leads to Felony Charge 2old2care at Because I Can - 2 hours ago From HuffPO *Teen Charged With Felony After Threatening 'Mass Homicide' If Zimmerman Acquitted * Although Zion Police Department Deputy Chief Steve Dumyahn told the Lake County News Sun that there was no credibility to the threat, adding that the high schooler has no weapons and no access to weapons, the teen is still being charged with a felony count of disorderly conduct. The teen, whose name is being withheld because he is a minor, 15 years old They investigated it: has no weapons and no access to weapons, charged with a felony count More BULLSHIT! Daughter Day Southern Man at Southern Man - 2 hours ago After work Southern Man took Teen Daughter to her piano lesson, then shopping for school supplies and to dinner at Charleston's. Torn between ordering from the grown up menu or getting her usual kid's chicken fingers and mac-and-cheese. She eventually went with the latter, with a side salad. One of a long series during which Southern Man was trying to figure out how to use the new camera in low light. Back at the Ancestral Manor with a haul of goods. Apparently Southern Son had worked hard today. Or something. Southern Father. R.I.P. Middle Class: Goodbye Full-Time Jobs, Hello Part-Time Jobs Mark Daniels at GLOBAL POLITICAL AWAKENING - 3 hours ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] Dees Illustration Michael Snyder A fundamental shift is taking place in the U.S. economy. In fact, this transition is rapidly picking up momentum and is in danger of becoming an avalanche. The percentage of full-time jobs in our economy is steadily declining and the percentage of part-time jobs is steadily increasing. This is not a recent phenomenon, but now there are several factors which are accelerating this trend. One of them is Obamacare. The truth is that Obamacare actually gives business owners incentive to cut h... more ? Neuroscientist: Science Says We Should Decriminalize Drugs Mark Daniels at GLOBAL POLITICAL AWAKENING - 3 hours ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] *Reason* Subscribe to Reason TV's Channel Get Hart's book *High Price* Here Enter your email address to subscribe to our newsletter: Delivered by FeedBurner Be the Change! Share this using the tools below. The disposition matrix: more details about Obama?s secret drone kill list, major mysteries remain Mark Daniels at GLOBAL POLITICAL AWAKENING - 3 hours ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] image source Madison Ruppert With new details about the Obama administration?s secret drone kill list known as the ?disposition matrix? revealed, even more mystery and concern remains. We have never known all that much about how the secret kill list works, as I pointed out in my first article on the subject in 2011. Since that time, attempts to learn more were repeatedly thwarted in court until a federal judge finally ruled that the Obama administration never has to explain the legal basis for the program. However, Attorne... more ? More on the Imaginary Torture-Murder Scandal ... thwap at thwap's schoolyard - 3 hours ago Two posts back I started a meme about how the rulers of an imaginary desert island society are trying to torture and kill one of the island's inhabitants for the sheer blood-lust of it all. It's an allegory about how we on the Left are stupid chumps for our inability to stand up to naked aggression and evil for want of a better word . In the first entry, the rulers were going to force a vote on the subject which they would win, but the less revolting elected leaders were going to employ legitimate parliamentary tactics to delay and stall the vote. The majority party was simply ... more ? Who Can't Respect Ron Paul After This Video? Mark Daniels at GLOBAL POLITICAL AWAKENING - 3 hours ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] *Youtube* A Ron Paul speech from 2002 predicted EVERY crisis our nation, and the world, is facing today. Ron Paul's career in Congress defending individual liberty across the board inspired MILLIONS around the world to become active in politics. Enter your email address to subscribe to our newsletter: Delivered by FeedBurner Be the Change! Share this using the tools below. The Blunt Truth about The Trayvon Martin Case Mark Daniels at GLOBAL POLITICAL AWAKENING - 3 hours ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] Note: Although few are able to adequately express the frustration, discontent, and angst associated with the death of Trayvon Martin and the associated pain caused to those most intimately involved in the lives of Trayvon and George Zimmerman, the following video tells a story which is completely ignored by the corporate owned media. *Youtube* Subscribe to Storm Clouds Gathering StormCloudsGathering.com Enter your email address to subscribe to our newsletter: Delivered by FeedBurner Be the Change! Share this using the too... more ? Congressman introduces bill to defund schools that punish kids for chewing pastries into gun shapes Mark Daniels at GLOBAL POLITICAL AWAKENING - 3 hours ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] Pop-Tart gun image credit: flickrnumi/Flickr Madison Ruppert Congressman Steve Stockman R-Texas has introduced a bill called the ?Student Protection Act? which would withdraw federal funding from any public school that punishes children for brandishing pastries chewed into the shape of a gun, playing with imaginary weapons, drawing guns and more. Stockman?s legislation, H.R. 2625, also called ?a bill to protect the rights of children,? comes in response to several nonsensical incidents where students were punished for ever... more ? The Evolution of the Humanoid Robot Mark Daniels at GLOBAL POLITICAL AWAKENING - 4 hours ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] image source Nicholas West In the age of computers, things evolve exponentially. In just a few generations robots have gone from a scientific fantasy, to a playful curiosity, to entering the battlefield to replace and/or augment their human counterparts. We are already at the point where we have to consider what the next step of robotic evolution looks like. According to robotics engineers, it appears that at some point in the near future the next step could very well be whatever the next generation robot chooses for itself... more ? Great Op-Ed on the Common Opposition to Common Corp Standards Jim Horn at SCHOOLS MATTER @ THE CHALK FACE - 4 hours ago By Rob Jenkins at the Newton Citizen in Newton County, GA: Any time conservatives and liberals in this country agree on anything, it?s time to stop the presses, glance up to see if pigs happen to be zooming by overhead, and check the temperature in you-know-where. It may also be time to pay attention. One [?] Read Stuff, You Should Jonathan Bernstein at A plain blog about politics - 4 hours ago Happy Birthday to Phoebe Cates, 50. Hey, Fast Times and Clueless fans -- and if you aren't, what's wrong with you? -- if you haven't see Amy Heckerling's Vamps yet, I highly recommend it. It's not, I'm afraid, as good as Clueless or as iconic as Fast Times, but it's excellent fun. A little good stuff... 1. Matt Yglesias knows how to dress up a chart. 2. From the Monkey Cage: Corrine McConnaughy on Trayvon Martin. 3. And Ta-Nehisi Coates on Trayvon Martin. 911 Truth Movement Gets Organized for Anniversary in NYC Mark Daniels at GLOBAL POLITICAL AWAKENING - 4 hours ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] *Activist Post* Every year activists converge on Ground Zero of the biggest crime in modern human history to demand a genuine investigation and accountability for government failures. This year, 9/11 activists are more organized than ever for this anniversary of 9/11. One group, GroundZero911.com, is planning guest speakers, concerts, street actions, silent vigils, and other activities. These truthers have been ridiculed in the past by the establishment as if truth is somehow a bad thing in a world full of deceit. But now,... more ? Study Links Contaminants to Gas Drilling Rachel Rindfleisch at Contaminated?Nation - Water Contamination, Land Pollution & Hazardous Waste locations - 4 hours ago By: Nathan Lamb The West Virginia legislature has been advised to step up environmental monitoring at natural gas drilling sites, after a recent study linked a potential carcinogen to that process, according a public broadcasting report. The study was conducted by Chairman of the Department of Occupational and Environmental Health at West Virginia University, Michael McCawley, who checked air quality at seven drilling sites over four months. The sites were evaluated at several stages of drilling, from set-up to fracking to when the gas pipelines were installed. In some cases, McCa... more ? Evidence Points to Federal Court Undermining Lawsuit Against BP Mark Daniels at GLOBAL POLITICAL AWAKENING - 4 hours ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] Dees Illustration Brandon Turbeville In early June, I wrote an article entitled, ?Lawsuit Claims BP and Court Colluded to Keep Monopoly on Oil Containment Tech,?[1] where I detailed many of the claims made by Ron Johnson who sued BP for antitrust and negligence in regards to the Deepwater Horizon Gulf Oil Spill. Johnson?s initial claims against BP were concerning enough. However, during the course of Johnson?s lawsuit and appeals process, Johnson began experiencing what he describes as clear corruption of the higher courts a... more ? Opportunity Knocks, Will Democratic Leadership Answer-- Or Even Hear? DownWithTyranny at DownWithTyranny! - 4 hours ago by Hermina Rodriguez You wouldn?t know it from the headlines, but tomorrow is a very big day for the environment. The House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee is meeting to decide who will succeed newly minted Sen. Ed Markey as ranking member on the House Natural Resources Committee. Whoever the Committee chooses will be a leading Democratic spokesman on environmental policy for years to come. Rep. Ra?l Grijalva is up for the position, and I hope he gets it. [Editor's Note: Everyone at *DWT* hopes he gets it.] Rep. Grijalva stands as the only challenger to Rep. Peter DeFazio... more ? SOCIETY DOWN: Murderer, Corey said! bob somerby at the daily howler - 4 hours ago *TUESDAY, JULY 16, 2013* *Part 1?Dismantling society?s norms:* Angela Corey is a real piece of work, although she?s hardly alone. Corey is the ?crazy-ass prosecuta? we pseudo-liberals have come to adore. Yesterday, she was interviewed by HLN?s Vinnie Politan about the Zimmerman trial. She sat with Bernie de la Rionda, who had argued her case in court. At one point, Politan asked the type of question which is dragging our intellect down: ?One word to describe George Zimmerman.? A long silence ensued. It seemed that no one was going to speak. Finally, Corey provided her word: ?Mur... more ? Taking Aim At His Enemies Owen Gray at Northern Reflections - 5 hours ago Stephen Harper shuffled his deck chairs yesterday. And Mike De Souza reports, in *The National Post*, that incoming ministers received a package which included a list of Harper's enemies: Prime Minister Stephen Harper?s office asked Conservative political staffers to develop lists of ?enemy? lobby groups, as well as troublesome bureaucrats and reporters to avoid as part of preparations for incoming ministers named in Monday?s cabinet shuffle, according to leaked emails sent to Postmedia News by an unidentified source. This isn't the first* *time the Harper government has produced... more ? Untitled New Orleans Ladder at New Orleans Ladder - 5 hours ago *Benefit scheduled for Gambit reporter injured in Mother's Day shooting ~WWLTV* *RTA to discuss $2 fare for Algiers ferry on Thursday ~Jeff Adelson, New Orleans Advocate * *Inspector general ready to sue OPSB over records request* *Stephanie Grace: The real judges of Orleans * *Bastille Day Blues in the Big Easy ~Tom Carson, The American Prospect**~Hat Tweet @JohnMcQuaid* *New Orleans rail service remembered as transportation officials gather in Jacksonville ~David Baurlein* *Need a LSU tuition break? ~C.B. Forgotston* *Flood insurance changes hit resistance, face delay* *Amend... more ? Edward Snowden has started the steps for asylum in Russia ..... Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 5 hours ago http://rt.com/news/lawyer-asylum-russia-snowden-164/ Whistleblower Edward Snowden has applied for political asylum in Russia, a human rights lawyer revealed. As his application for asylum is considered, Snowden may be given special permission to enter the country and move around freely, the source said. * Snowden has handed over his application to Sheremetyevo?s Federal Migration Service staff?*, Russian human rights lawyer Anatoly Kucherena revealed. *?I told him about all the intricacies of the procedure. It was decided that a staff member from the FMS office will come to the air... more ? Taipei Times Editorial on TI: Who has Egg on Face? Michael Turton at The View from Taiwan - 5 hours ago *I went down to Lukang today and couldn't believe my eyes. Some prime loser erected this monstrosity right on the famous Mo Ru lit: rub breast Lane, which has lots of historical houses, a couple of historical sites, and temples that date back to the 17th century. The lane is kept in that kitschy historical style so often seen in Taiwan. * I was planning a longer post on how ridiculously stupid the Transparency International index for Taiwan in 2013 is, and lo and behold, the Taipei Times put out an editorial on the burgeoning mess with Transparency International's ridiculous co... more ? Johnny Rotten Vs. Monarch Paul Coker at News Spike - 6 hours ago Johnny Rotten Vs. Monarch from Spike1138 on Vimeo. That's Dad....??! The CIA's Monarch Programming takes its name from the Monarch butterfly. They begin as worms underdeveloped and new and after the cocoon stage programming it is transformed into a completely different creature?a high-flying butterfly aka the Monarch slave . Also, when someone is given electroshock therapy, a feeling of light-headedness occurs and the person feels like they are floating, like a butterfly. World's Largest Building Opens in China arclein at Terra Forming Terra - 6 hours ago I actually like this design protocol for a couple of reasons. First the entire outside perimeter can be condominium frontage and the entire interior perimeter can also provide a frontage on the interior space and the internal climate. Second, the interior space is huge and can even contain condo tower type 'pillars' that provide hard points for an enclosing roof that could also be partially retractable as a possibly climate controlled space inside the structure that becomes a senior attraction in itself. What this does allow is an underlying retail complex, along with ampl... more ? Voyager 1 Entered Weird Region In Space Last Summer arclein at Terra Forming Terra - 6 hours ago After several months it has become clear that out boundary layer is different and thick. As usual all previous guesses are rubbish. Predicting when this state of affairs may change again is obviously impossible. As before, it is our first clean glimpse of what may be the bow wave in front of our sun. *Voyager 1 Entered Weird Region In Space Last Summer* *New papers describe an unexpected boundary region at the edge of the influence of the Sun.* * * *By **Francie Diep*** * * *Posted 06.28.2013* * * * http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2013-06/voyager-1-en... more ? Musical Interlude: Constance Demby, Ocean Without Shores noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 7 hours ago Constance Demby, Ocean Without Shores - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dl1Pn-KrvGA&html5=1 A Look to the Heavens noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 7 hours ago ?What's going on in the center of this spiral galaxy? Named the Sombrero Galaxy for its hat-like resemblance, M104 features a prominent dust lane and a bright halo of stars and globular clusters. Reasons for the Sombrero's hat-like appearance include an unusually large and extended central bulge of stars, and dark prominent dust lanes that appear in a disk that we see nearly edge-on. Billions of old stars cause the diffuse glow of the extended central bulge visible in the below image from the 200-inch Hale Telescope. *Click image for larger size.* Close inspection of the cen... more ? Chet Raymo, Secularization noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 7 hours ago * Secularization * by Chet Raymo In her book, The Case for God , which I have previously blogged at length July 16-19, 2009 , Karen Armstrong proposes to tell us What Religion Really Means. And she does, at length, at least by her lights. In her penultimate paragraph she writes: From almost the very beginning, men and women?evolved mythologies, rituals and ethical disciplines that brought them intimations of holiness that seemed in some indescribable way to enhance and fulfill their humanity?The point of religion was to live intensely and richly in the here and now. Rel... more ? Finding Encouragement: Your True Inner Voice noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 8 hours ago * * * Finding Encouragement: Your True Inner Voice * by Madisyn Taylor, The DailyOM The longer you listen to and believe your true inner voice, the stronger it will become. Within each of us, there are numerous voices often that compete for our attention. It can be difficult to decide which one to listen to, particularly when their messages are all quite different, sometimes conflicting, and even alluring. One voice, however, is the speaker of truth. Among all your inner voices, your true inner voice is the one which encourages you, gives you hope, and pushes you to trust and be... more ? The Daily Near You? noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 8 hours ago Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania. Thanks for stopping by. Satire: Florida Considers Eliminating Laws Altogether noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 8 hours ago * Florida Considers Eliminating Laws Altogether * by Andy Borowitz TALLAHASSEE The Borowitz Report ? Arguing that its current system of laws is out of step with life in today?s Florida, a growing chorus of lawmakers in the state are arguing for a measure that would eliminate laws altogether. ?Florida is rife with laws that say ?Do this, don?t do that,? ? said Gov. Rick Scott, a supporter of the measure. ?Speaking as a Floridian, I have found it exhausting pretending to obey them.? There is broad support in the state for abolishing laws, according to a poll commissioned by the... more ? Snowy Owl, Sanikiluaq Nunavut James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 9 hours ago Film poster anagrams Roobin at THROUGH THE SCARY DOOR - 9 hours ago Mr Zimmerman and the Kid arclein at Terra Forming Terra - 10 hours ago One is never going to know the facts on this case and it is both disturbing and wrapped in the US gun culture which creates an additional level of danger and uncertainty. Either Zimmerman cold cocked the kid, then discovered that he had bit of more than he could chew and then went for his gun or Zimmerman confronted the kid who cold cocked Zimmerman who then went for his gun. That is how two men landed on the ground in mortal combat. Whichever way, Zimmerman was losing to a strong kid when he went for his gun. That is not the real problem here though. The problem is ... more ? Resolution Calls for: the U.S. Government to Condemn China?s Organ Transplantation Abuses arclein at Terra Forming Terra - 10 hours ago This unfortunate situation is slowly brewing up to cause great grief to the ultimate legitimacy of the Chinese Communist Party. If compares exactly to Hitler's genocide constrained only by the market size for human organs. In practice, it was perhaps to only way to generate those organs in terms of Chinese culture which bodes ill for the inevitable fallout. Now push back is emerging in the USA and this can be expected elsewhere as well. It will serve well as a negotiating tool henceforth. The global media has been foot dragging on telling this story which is really the... more ? The Latest Technology - The Invented Sea - How Far Behind Are We? Mike Philbin at PROGNOSIS II - 10 hours ago people always forget that TECHNOLOGY ISN'T MADE FOR 'OUR BENEFIT'. it's made for PROFIT. but it's also made as a stepping stone, during a potential-profit-making scenario. take ProMIS: Prosecutor Management Information System from the Inslawcompany, circa 1970. ProMIS had been around, in one form or another, for THIRTY YEARS before some clever/paranoid internet boffins attached significance of the 'people tracking' and 'database integration' software to The Ptech Company and the FAA and hence 'realtime management of datafeeds on FAA radar screens' during The 9/11 Event. Why don't y... more ? Light Dirac neutralino dark matter Lubo? Motl at The Reference Frame - 10 hours ago As the TRF readers are regularly reminded see especially dark matter wars , an increasing number of direct dark matter search experiments indicate that there exists a very light particle of dark matter, \ 7\ -\ 10\GeV\ , that may have been detected underground. Its cross section with a nucleon, if spin-independent, would be close to \ 2\times 10^{-41}\,{\rm cm}^2\ . *Off-topic, feeds:* the former users of Google Reader may try Feedly, try the red feed logo near my photograph in the right sidebar, or The Old Reader, a link to this blog's feed. ------------------------------ *LHC lumi... more ? Your moment of Zen Libby Spencer at The Impolitic - 11 hours ago In search of sweet nectar. [Roy Hancliff photo] Gaia Portal: Energetic ?Infernos? Envelope the Planet at this Moment? Obi-Wan Kabuki at AMERICAN KABUKI - 12 hours ago * * * * *Energetic ?Infernos? Envelope the Planet at this Moment?* by ?irePort Energetic infernos envelope the planet at this moment. Numerous fire type manifestations may thus be observed at various portal locations throughout the Earth surface. Gaia Essence is unaffected by these inferno energies as that is of a Higher Dimensional structure. Yet she has approved of these in order to cleanse 3D 4D earth surface and underground of veiled dark shadow, negative constructs which have served their purpose. Some of these have displayed a reticence to leave the Gaia collective... more ? Soulpancake: Reverse Pickpocket Obi-Wan Kabuki at AMERICAN KABUKI - 13 hours ago How Do You Live Green? Small Footprints at Reduce Footprints - 13 hours ago We all live green in different ways. I thought it might be fun to find out which activities are the most popular and how they stack up against each other. Here is this month's survey: Create your free online surveys with SurveyMonkey , the world's leading questionnaire tool. Have You Ever Thought Much About Cricket, The Gentleman's Game? DownWithTyranny at DownWithTyranny! - 13 hours ago This isn't the website sports fans come to for their morning fix... or their evening wrap-up. Sometimes Ken or I write about baseball, basketball or football if there's some political connection or, in Ken's case, just because he wants to. There haven't been too many mentions of cricket though. Ken brought it up-- with pictures-- back in 2007 in relation to Tom Stoppard's play, *The Real Thing* and a year before that I mentioned how crooked right-wing freak Sir Allen Stanford wasn't just using all his criminal loot to bribe sleazy politicians like John Boehner, Pete Sessions, R... more ? Affordable Care Act falling to the waste bin ? First the Employer Mandate delayed until 2015... Now the Big Three Unions take on ObamaCare - shift from full time to part time employment galling the heck out of former union supporters of healthcare reform , differne treatment for heath and welfare plans also galling the heck out of the former supporters of healthcare reform.....And guess how they feel about the tax treatment ? Looks like they want CHANGEs ....... ... Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 13 hours ago http://blogs.wsj.com/corporate-intelligence/2013/07/12/union-letter-obamacare-will-destroy-the-very-health-and-wellbeing-of-workers/ The roll out of President Obama?s health care reform package was always going to be tricky, with vehement opposition from his political opponents and pushback from employers large and small. But after announcing last week that penalties for companies failing to comply with the law will be delayed by a year, the Affordable Care Act has a new, high profile set of dissenters: Unions. The leaders of three major U.S. unions, including the highly influential ... more ? Leonard Garment Jonathan Bernstein at A plain blog about politics - 14 hours ago Leonard Garment, RIP. Garment, as those reading my Watergate posts know, succeeded John Dean as White House Counsel at the height of Watergate, and stayed on with Nixon until the end. Garment probably wound up as the only, or at least the only high-ranked, Nixon White House staffer to actually enhance his reputation as a result of Watergate. In particular, he as I'm planning to write in today's item! was a strong voice against destroying the White House tapes. In addition, there's a later episode in which Nixon proposes to create evidence, and Garment is one of those who prevented... more ? Teacher Preparation and the Bottom Line: Dear College and University Leaders. Timothy D. Slekar at SCHOOLS MATTER @ THE CHALK FACE - 14 hours ago Dear College and University Presidents, Chancellors, and CEOs, Please do some simple calculations for me. How much revenue does student enrollment generate? How many of these students are enrolled in some kind of teacher-credentialing program? How much revenue do these programs generate? Go ahead. Do it. Take a few minutes of your valuable time and [?] Walter Burkert On Sacred Shivers of Awe Saman Mohammadi at The Excavator - 14 hours ago *Wikipedia: * Walter Burkert born 2 February 1931 in Neuendettelsau is a German scholar of Greek mythology and cult. He has published books on the balance between lore and science among the followers of Pythagoras, and more extensively on ritual and archaic cult survival, on the ritual killing at the heart of religion, on mystery religions, and on the reception in the Hellenic world of Near Eastern and Persian culture, which sets Greek religion in its wider Aegean and Near Eastern context. An excerpt from, * Creation of the Sacred: Tracks of Biology in Early Religions * by W... more ? Yakama/Umatilla fishing rights activist threatened with arrest for traditional cultural camp brendanorrell@gmail.com at CENSORED NEWS - 14 hours ago Sid Mills at Occupation of Wounded Knee/Photo Owen Luck Hundreds prepare to go to jail to establish Meadow Creek Indian Camp By Censored News http://bsnorrell.blogspot.com/2013/07/yakamaumatilla-fishing-rights-activist.html Sid Mills, Yakama/Umatilla tribes, long time frontline fishing rights and other indigenous sovereignty movement leader was harassed and threatened by US Forest cops Syria updates - July 15 , 2013 - Is Turkey playing a double game here with Israel against Syria ? Proxy war to continue for quite some time - as Assad forces get stronger and Rebels more fractured , we will soon reach a moment of truth for Nato and the US ...... Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 14 hours ago http://rt.com/news/israel-strike-syria-turkey-089/ Israel used a Turkish military base to launch one of its recent airstrikes against Syria from the sea, a reliable source told RT. Israel has been under scrutiny since last week, when it was reported to be responsible for a July 5 depot attack in Latakia. News that Turkey assisted Israel in attacking another Muslim state could result in serious turmoil for Ankara, once the information is confirmed. * Our source is telling us that Israeli planes left a military base inside Turkey and approached Latakia from the sea to make sure that t... more ? Arviat children eat fewer than 3 fruit per month: Researcher says children also eat little local caribou and fish James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 14 hours ago We found some terrible things. You know, most of our students are eating caribou meat only once a week. They're eating fish only once a month. They're eating fruit on average 2.8 times a month. They're getting a vegetable only once a week, she said. http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/north/story/2013/07/15/north-children-arviat-diets.html Baseball, Steroids and Forever. Catelli at Not Quite Unhinged - 14 hours ago Funny where a throw-away comment can take you. I was annoyed by the headline in this article that quoted Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig saying this sport [baseball] is cleaner than it's ever been in reaction to the ongoing performance enhancement drug issues bedeviling professional and amateur sports. The use of the word ever bothers me, and has for a long time. It probably bothers me more Business, marketing, branding, no integrity whatsoever #khanacademy Chalk Face, PhD at SCHOOLS MATTER @ THE CHALK FACE - 15 hours ago Over at Think Progress, there?s a post on an absurd budget calculator sponsored by McDonald?s and Visa to help hardworking minimum wage workers with financial literacy. A worthwhile cause, no doubt. As you can see in the image below, the sample provided helpfully includes space to budget income for your second job, because a McJob [?] Pierre Poilievre, Minister for Democratic Reform Alison at Creekside - 15 hours ago Who really thinks Skippy's appointment to Democratic Reform is about democratic reform? Ha! Poilievre's appointment is about a coming battle over election reform and robocalls. It's been sixteen months since the Cons promised to bring in a bill addressing Mayrand's proposed reforms to prevent a repeat of last election's robocon fiasco. The Cons have yet to consult Mayrand on it and he's been making public noises about their obstruction of his election fraud investigation as well. Meanwhile the 2014 spring deadline past which reforms can't be implemented in time for the next elect... more ? Constitutional violations . . . Edstock at The Galloping Beaver - 15 hours ago DIGITAL JOURNAL has a disturbing report, Bush-Cheney began illegal NSA spying before 9/11, says telcom CEO . According to Ralph Lopez, Contradicting a statement by ex-vice president Dick Cheney on Sunday that warrantless domestic surveillance might have prevented 9/11, 2007 court records indicate that the Bush-Cheney administration began such surveillance at least 7 months prior to 9/11. The Continuing Saga of the Confederation Overpass Way Way Up at Fort McMurray Adventures - 15 hours ago There's quite a bit of back story here but essentially this spoof radio announcement pretty much sums up what I'm sure many commuters think about the ineptitude of Alberta Transportation. The long-awaited Confederation overpass was opened last fall. Things seemed to be improving. But then, things just started to get goofy. In a nutshell, it seems the government was in such a rush to show it was actually doing something to fix traffic flow here that it jumped the gun by several months it would now seem and opened an overpass before it was truly ready. Frankly, I think our Tran... more ? US-Iran Relations: Overcoming a Legacy of Mistrust Saman Mohammadi at The Excavator - 16 hours ago Related: *Great Decisions Lecture Iran by Dr. Christopher J. Bolan, USAWC *. *Brief comment: *As you know, the brouhaha about the Iranian nuclear program is much ado about nothing. Obsessing about this one issue is stupid and counter-productive to peace. It is a symptom of the insane relations between America and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Pressing on this point is meant to serve as a wedge to stop the progression of the peace talks and the restoration of a normal and healthy relationship between the two countries. Mister Netanyahu can *say Iran is building a bomb until he t... more ? Mining 26: Presentation at Rotary Club of Taguig Fort Bonifacio Nonoy Oplas at Government and Taxes - 16 hours ago Last night, I gave a talk at our Rotary Club of Taguig Fort Bonifacio. My clubmates were happy to see these data and insights. One member suggested to have a bigger forum on the subject with speakers from opposing sides, to be sponsored by the club. Good proposal, supported by many other club members. I skipped four slides here. The complete 26-slides presentation is available here, http://www.slideshare.net/Noysky/mine-tax-and-regulations ------------- See also: Mining 22: Philippines as EITI Candidate, June 05, 2013 Mining 23: On the Proposed 10 Percent Gross Revenue T... more ? Internet Fascism and the #SurveillanceState Peter Cresswell at Not PC - 16 hours ago *Whatever you think about Kim DotCom, spied on by the GCSB, he was never considered a terrorist. Whatever you think about American journalists, lawyers and law firms, banking firms, corporates, NGOs, judges and politicians--all spied on by the NSA?they?ve never been considered terrorists either. Yet, asks our guest poster Ben O?Neill, wasn?t the rationale for the huge expansion of agencies like this that they needed to be so big to fight terrorism ? So why are they invading privacy on a scale dwarfing the crimes that launched the Leveson Inquiry.* What is the purpose of telecommun... more ? KAUAI VISIT Bruce K. Gagnon at Organizing Notes - 16 hours ago On my last day in Kauai, Hawaii the local peace folks organized a picnic at the beach. Here we are holding a sign from Okinawa where they are protesting the deployment of US Osprey aircraft. The woman marine biologist in the middle of the back row with her hands in a circle had just returned from a trip to Okinawa where she helped build support to stop the US construction of a Marine airbase runway out into the ocean that will destroy a coral reef. The folks in Kauai were great and treated me so kindly. Are all phony-baloney pro-lifers as deranged and violently women-hating as Erick Erickson? At a guess, quite possibly KenInNY at DownWithTyranny! - 16 hours ago *by Ken* Daily Kos's Weatherdude passed the above tweet along with this note: I know one-sentence diaries with a screenshot of a Tweet are frowned upon around here, but how could one possibly expand on the absolute class that is Erick Erickson? This man is walking proof that pro-life is a lie. Fortunately we have no compunctions about one-sentence posts with screen shots of tweets; we just usually have trouble stopping talking after one sentence. I know somebody somewhere will say, Jeez, dude, catcha take a joke? But of course to anyone with a working brain, the notion of thi... more ? MADE IT TO MANILA Bruce K. Gagnon at Organizing Notes - 16 hours ago I arrived in Manila last night about dinner time. Organizers of the conference I am attending from July 16-18, called US Strategic Pivot to Asia Pacific, US Militarism, Intervention and War, had someone pick me up at the airport and take me to an interesting hotel where folks arriving were put in a room with six bunk beds. Then this morning we moved to a hotel in another part of the city where the conference is set to begin. So far I've noticed that folks are here from Australia, Japan, Taiwan, Lebanon, Puerto Rico, Columbia, India, Kurdistan, South Korea, Germany, Malaysia, Ca... more ? PMO Asks Ministerial Staff To Prepare Briefing Binders For New Ministers With 'Blacklist' Of Problem Civil Servants And 'Enemy Reporters' ... leftdog at Buckdog - 17 hours ago [image: Progressive Bloggers] *OTTAWA ? In the lead-up to Monday?s cabinet shuffle, ministerial staffers were asked to develop lists of troublesome bureaucrats and ?enemy? stakeholders, Global News has learned.* * **The information was to be included in a transition binder traditionally prepared for incoming ministers. Global News has obtained a July 4 email written by Erica Furtado, an executive assistant with issues management in the Prime Minister?s Office, with the subject line ?Transition Binder Check List?. In the e-mail, Furtado lists 10 items that need to be addressed in t... more ? Bachmann's Top Aide Arrested for Theft 2old2care at Because I Can - 17 hours ago From Fox News Javier Sanchez, a senior legislative assistant to Rep. Michele Bachmann R-Minn. , has been arrested in connection with a string of thefts in the Rayburn House Office Building, Fox News has learned. From The Hill Police charged Javier Sanchez, 37, with Theft II. ?Earlier this year the United States Capitol Police was apprised of thefts that occurred in the Rayburn House Office Building,? spokesperson Shennell Antro told The Hill in a statement. ?The USCP conducted an investigation and were able to identify a subject. The investigation resulted in the arrest of 37 ye... more ? A McBudget for the working poor Libby Spencer at The Impolitic - 17 hours ago McDonalds has partnered with Visa to launch a website to help its low-wage workers making an average $8.25 an hour to budget. If this sample McBudget wasn't so cruel and insulting, it would be so absurd as to be funny. Have to love that it starts by assuming their workers need two jobs to make ends meet. Of course that ignores the fact that few of their workers actually clear even as much as $1000 in a month, much less are offered schedules that allow them to get a second crappy minimum wage job with enough hours to make up the difference. And apparently they believe all their w... more ? Misdirection watch - double standard on Facebook and Twitter regarding threats being allowed while political speech that goes against apparently the politics of FB , blocked ? Following the aftermath from the verdict - a lok at Oakland.... And is the Administration caught between Scylla and Charybdis in the Trayvon Martin / George Zimmerman controversial case ? Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 17 hours ago http://www.infowars.com/facebook-refuses-to-remove-kill-zimmerman-page/ Facebook Refuses to Remove ?Kill Zimmerman? Page - [image: The Alex Jones Channel][image: Alex Jones Show podcast][image: Prison Planet TV][image: Infowars.com Twitter][image: Alex Jones' Facebook][image: Infowars store] Threats to murder Zimmerman continue to flood Twitter *Paul Joseph Watson* Infowars.com July 15, 2013 Facebook refused to remove a page entitled ?Kill Zimmerman? ? arguing that it didn?t represent a ?credible threat of violence,? as threats to murder George Zimmerman following his acqu... more ? Quote of the day: On thinking for yourself? Peter Cresswell at Not PC - 17 hours ago ?No man can use his brain to think for another. All of the functions of the body and spirit are private. They cannot be shared or transferred.? ? Ayn Rand Discuss. Content is copyright PC.BlogSpot.Com ? Please contact author for permission to republish: organon at ihug.co.nz Google Energy Libby Spencer at The Impolitic - 17 hours ago A bit of good news from a corporate behemoth. Using their megabucks to make a commitment to healing the planet, Google has sunk over $1 billion into renewable energy. Analysts say Google is the only company other than energy businesses and financial institutions that has taken large ownership stakes in major stand-alone power projects. The Internet search giant's efforts to transform the world's use of power and fossil fuels have included a $200 million investment in a Texas wind farm and the purchase of a company that makes innovative flying wind turbines. It has invested $168 m... more ? TONY BLAIR DISPLAYS HIS NEOCONSERVATIVE CREDENTIALS Damian Lataan at Telling the History of the Twenty-First Century as it Really Is - 18 hours ago I occasionally end articles about neoconservatism with a retort that goes thus: ?Arrogance and hypocrisy; the values that ?they? hate about ?us?.? It?s just a little slogan that I think goes some way to describing the contempt that neoconservatives have toward those they presume to be their enemies. The ?Arrogance? part of the slogan reflects the self-righteous ?we know best? haughtiness of neoconservativism, while the self-explanatory use of the word ?hypocrisy? exposes neoconservatism?s real values as they parade the ideals of ?democracy? and ?justice? as being the acceptable stan... more ? South Africa is Still a Profoundly Racist Country Paul Coker at News Spike - 18 hours ago Custody arrangements of children cannot be used to punish contempt James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 18 hours ago Chan v. Town, 2013 ONCA 478 holds: [6] We therefore set aside the finding of contempt. It is nevertheless necessary to state that the remedy imposed by the motion judge was not an available remedy under rule 31 5 of the *Family Law Rules*. Custodial arrangements of children cannot be used as a punishment for contempt. That is not to say that there may not be a circumstance where a change in custodial arrangements would be in the best interests of the child, but this is not that case. There was no motion to vary the final order for custody based on a material change in circ... more ? Egypt updates for July 15 , 2013 - Military takes hardline with Muslim Brotherhood assets of 14 top leaders frozen and US - US envoy snubbed by political parties while Egypt General tells US to tread lightly and not makes threats ..... Fred Walton at Catharsis Ours - 18 hours ago http://www.debka.com/article/23120/Egypt%E2%80%99s-Gen-El-Sisi-tells-visiting-US-official-Don%E2%80%99t-bully-Cairo-by-threats-to-suspend-military-aid Deputy Secretary of State William Burns, the first senior US official to visit Cairo since the military coup of July 3, exchanged tough talk with the coup leader, Defense minister Gen. Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, Monday, after he met interim President Adly Mansour and Prime Minister Hazem al-Beblawi. The general frankly advised Washington to be more realistic about the situation in Egypt. Accordingly to DEBKAfile?s Middle East sources, El-Si... more ? More Commentary on The FSA Fictitious Syrian Army Saman Mohammadi at The Excavator - 18 hours ago *Assad: The Free Syrian Army, hahahaha, that's a good one. * An excerpt from, * Syria: The West's Muddled Policy * Moon of Alabama, July 15 : *The Free Syrian Army is nothing but a marketing front for a whole bunch of disunited criminal and jihadi groups.* Weapons flowing to it would certainly end up in hands of those the west would not like to be armed too much or to win the war. The administration has no real plans for Syria. It has no strategy and no idea who it wants to come out winning the war. But as long as the country gets destroyed it seems to be fine with the wa... more ? J. Edgar Hoover - House Negro Paul Coker at News Spike - 18 hours ago Check the 'fro. When it's nappy, Edgar's unhappy... The Realist Report with John Friend John Friend at John Friend's Blog - 18 hours ago On this edition of *The Realist Report*, we'll be joined by *John de Nugent*. John and I will be discussing his recent essay *The Repositioning, Revenge and Return of the Reich 1945-2045*. Please visit *The Realist Report* on TalkeShoe to download this and past episodes. NYTimes Editorial Board Dancing the CorpEd Soft-shoe Jim Horn at SCHOOLS MATTER @ THE CHALK FACE - 18 hours ago Clarence Thomas is one of those exceptional black men who climbed to the top in his field and then pulled up the ladder behind him. As a representative of the U. S. Supreme Court?s tokenism, Thomas reliably parrots the white conservative justices who, otherwise, would view him with the same mixture of fear and disdain [?] O'odham protest US Border Patrol disruption of ceremonies brendanorrell@gmail.com at CENSORED NEWS - 18 hours ago US Border Patrol told to halt disruption of O'odham ceremonies By Brenda Norrell Censored News http://bsnorrell.blogspot.com/2013/07/oodham-protest-us-border-patrol.html SELLS, Arizona -- The O'odham Voice against the Wall will protest the US Border Patrol invasion of their lands, and disruption of their ceremonies on Tuesday, July 16, and Friday, July 26, 2013. Our message is that we as Arctic Flowers in Sanikiluaq James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 19 hours ago Christy Clark`s LNG Basket Of Eggs, Scrambled And Broken Grant G at The Straight Goods - 19 hours ago *Written by Grant G* The pitfalls of the BC Liberals putting all our financial eggs in one LNG basket, the hits to Christy Clark`s and the BC Liberal`s promised $trillion dollar fantasy just keep coming.. As reported in the below post Japan will be restarting all of their nuclear facilities, Japan is making that decision for domestic financial reasons, yes there are many opposed to restarting their nuclear power sources but even more Japanese people are worried about being held hostage by countries like Canada and Australia.. The result of Japan`s decision to restart these plan... more ? Tohono O'odham Council approves 15th US spy tower, expansion of Border Patrol brendanorrell@gmail.com at CENSORED NEWS - 19 hours ago US spy tower on Tohono O'odham land Censored News Exclusive Tohono O'odham Council approves 15th US spy tower on sovereign land, expansion of US Border Patrol occupation By Brenda Norrell Censored News Copyright Brenda Norrell, Censored News SELLS, Ariz. -- The Tohono O'odham Nation has approved the lease of more of its sovereign land for US Border Patrol units and a 15th US spy tower on Len Browns? sleight of hand Peter Cresswell at Not PC - 20 hours ago So Len Brown?s ?Consensus? group consulting on how to pay for his monuments?for the *billions of dollars*1* *worth of monuments he plans to build around the city, *on top of* the $7 billion in debt he?s already loaded onto the city?are suggesting higher public transport fares to be increased annually , another petrol tax to be increased *every year* , tolls on roads and motorways also to be increased *every year* and more money from central government to be increased as and when govt and taxpayers? arms can be twisted . Meanwhile, while everyone else discusses how to pay for ... more ? ??????????? Barbara Diamond at American Scofflaw - 20 hours ago Roswell Festival 2013 KRandle at A Different Perspective - 20 hours ago The 2013 Roswell Festival celebrating the 66th anniversary of the UFO crash has come and gone and I will note here that to appease the skeptics, I probably should have said alleged UFO crash . Held, as normal over the Fourth of July Weekend and sponsored by the International UFO Museum and Research Center, there was a full slate of speakers and presentations that covered the whole gamut of UFOs including a slight foray into science fiction. On the science fiction side there was Tom Kirkbride, who is becoming a regular feature at the Festival. He is the author of the Gamadin books t... more ? Egypt Defense Minister General Al-Sisi on Morsi's Ouster: The People Felt Terrified and Imprisoned. Saman Mohammadi at The Excavator - 20 hours ago Egypt Defense Minister General Al-Sisi on Morsi's Ouster: The People Felt Terrified and Imprisoned. Source: MEMRI TV. Steve Israel Is Trying To Saddle Us With Jennifer Garrison, Ohio's Sarah Palin DownWithTyranny at DownWithTyranny! - 20 hours ago Jennifer Garrison-- Steve Israel's kind of Democrat Early in June we warned that DCCC Chair Steve Israel-- be sure to watch Bravo's Princesses: Long Island which is about his district to understand Israel's mentality-- was trying to recruit Ohio's Sarah Palin, Jennifer Garrison, to run against Bill Johnson. Johnson won his seat in 2010-- part of the Great Blue Dog Apocalypse-- because Democrats refused to turn out for conservative Blue Dog Charlie Wilson. Despite $2,086,390 from the DCCC and $397,242 from their House Majority PAC, Wilson lost again in a rematch last year, 53-47%. The... more ? Uni research recognises Bastiat?s ?broken window;message Peter Cresswell at Not PC - 20 hours ago A friend just sent me the news that the message about Frederic Bastiat?s ?broken window fallacy? is finally getting through. Contrary to popular perception, the Canterbury earthquakes have not had a pronounced short-term effect on New Zealand?s economy, Victoria University research shows. This lack of macroeconomic impact to date is not entirely surprising, given that previous research on large disasters in high-income countries has reached similar conclusions,? say the researchers, Professor Ilan Noy and Ms Lisa Doyle, from Victoria?s School of Economics and Finance? The... more ? The Triumph of Machines The Mound of Sound at The Disaffected Lib - 21 hours ago An article in the latest *Tyee* that you're bound to find exciting, inspirational or utterly depressing. It concerns advances being made by a Richmond, B.C. firm in *M2M* or machine-to-machine communications. The only thing missing is you. * We're right on the forefront of this, [Sierra Wireless VP Larry] Zibrik says matter-of-factly, gesturing towards a projector image on the wall. It depicts an electric car driving through the connected world of the future. * * * *In this world, wind turbines, smart meters, billboards, tablets, electric cars, charging stations and secur... more ? Making Peace with Trayvon Martin The Mound of Sound at The Disaffected Lib - 21 hours ago As far as I'm concerned, George Zimmerman murdered Trayvon Martin. The evidence wasn't there to convict him beyond a reasonable doubt and so he walked. The U.S. Justice Department is exploring whether Zimmerman can face a civil rights charge but don't hold your breath. But Trayvon Martin still deserves justice. Today's *New York Times*editorialcalls for the repeal of laws that encourage the sort of showdown that took young Martin's life. *The jury reached its verdict after having been asked to consider Mr. Zimmerman?s actions in light of the now-notorious Stand Your Ground pro... more ? SPIRITED OAKLAND A's ARE TEAM TO BEAT IN AMERICAN LEAGUE Allen L Roland, Ph.D at Allen L Roland's Weblog - 21 hours ago *Oakland Athletics' Josh Reddick, left, pies teammate Josh Donaldson in the face after Donaldson drove in the winning run against the Boston Red Sox in a crucial Major League Baseball game, Sunday, July 14, 2013 at the Coliseum in Oakland, Calif. The A's won in 11 innings, 3-2*. *D. Ross Cameron/Bay Area News Group* *Having been a NY and then SF Giant fan for most of my life, I was unprepared for the unabashed spirit and enthusiasm of both the Oakland A's and their fans when I moved to the East Bay in late 2012. Now I'm convinced that this band of disciplined ... more ? Consequences of the Business Model of Education freetoteach at SCHOOLS MATTER @ THE CHALK FACE - 21 hours ago Ever wonder what it would look like if business leaders and profiteers got a hold of education? Welcome to the new normal. Another consequence of the high stakes testing, competitive, winner take all game being played out in public schools across the country is having a far deeper impact on society that can?t be measured [?] Jews and Islam: A European Perspective. Rufus News From Atlantis at News From Atlantis. - 22 hours ago Across Europe, the indigenous population is being legally discriminated against by the Establishment and all of its many tentacles - including the media, education system, social services, employment regulation bodies, and all manner of self-hating liberal volunteer groups. We are forced to fund services which we are then denied access to or at the very least, placed at the back of a very long queue to use ; we are denied advancement in employment solely due to our ethnic background; we are denied freedom of speech on anything of importance whilst being repeatedly told that we live... more ? The Science of Happiness - An Experiment in Gratitude Obi-Wan Kabuki at AMERICAN KABUKI - 22 hours ago http://soulpancake.com/ Running orders Craig at Is the BBC biased? - 22 hours ago Following on from the last pair of posts, here's another way of looking at the BBC's unique set of news priorities today - simply by comparing the list of stories covered by BBC One's *News at Six* with that covered by ITV's *News at 6.30. * What stories were covered? In what order? And how long was spent on each story? *BBC News at Six* 1. The benefit cap * over 4 minutes * 2. The Resolution Foundation's report on high rents * well over 3 minutes * 3. The benefit cap, again * over a minute * 4. The soldiers who died while training in Wales * over 2 minutes * 5. More charges agains... more ? A smarter way to deal with Honduran migrants paul at Paying attention - 22 hours ago The flood of Hondurans trying to make it to the United States has become crazy. Honduras is opening a diplomatic office in the border city of McAllen, Texas, joining Guatemala and Mexico in trying to deal with the migrants. Since Oct. 1, the U.S. Border Patrol has arrested 20,000 Hondurans trying to make their way to America to work. That?s more than 70 a day, every day of the week. The new Honduras office will help handle the deportation paperwork and look after shipping the remains who died trying . The costs for all involved are huge. The deportees get bundled onto airplanes and ... more ? The fake facts never die in these cases! bob somerby at the daily howler - 22 hours ago *MONDAY, JULY 15, 2013* *We are all Rush and Fox now:* Our major national disputes are almost wholly controlled by fake facts. Once the fake facts have been established, they simply never die. In part, that?s because newspapers like the New York Times agree to avoid fact-checking any Preferred Standard Narrative. Once a fake fact has been established, it will live forever. Consider this groaner by Edward Wyckoff Williams in a new post at Salon: WILLIAMS 7/15/13 : *It bears reminding that it was Sanford?s police who first allowed Zimmerman to walk away uncharged?his gun in tote. *T... more ? Collaborationist Responds to Posts on TURNcoats Jim Horn at SCHOOLS MATTER @ THE CHALK FACE - 23 hours ago There is a cancer inside AFT and NEA, and it is The Union Reform Network TURN . I have posted previously on this situation more than once, and one of TURN?s members, Jimmy Barnhill, had this response to TURN Teachers Union Reform Network : Agents and Collaborators: In the ed reform debates of the day, what we need most are [?] Living With Nature The Mound of Sound at The Disaffected Lib - 23 hours ago It's something most people have never seen and, for those who have, it's uncommon. Yesterday, however, I was treated to another display of a Bald Eagle death spiral. I've witnessed this a few times before but usually in remote inlets up the coast. This time it happened just a mile from my home over the local highway. Here's what the spiral looks like: I was riding, in trail, with a neighbour. I spotted the pair of eagles around 50 feet up, spiraling in their talon death grip and seemingly out of control. I was sure my friend ahead would hit them one way or another. Instea... more ? Global Warming Metrics, New Sea Level Rise Projections The Mound of Sound at The Disaffected Lib - 23 hours ago We're finally getting a handle on climate change impacts. We've just learned that it takes roughly a million years for most species to evolve as needed to adapt to a 1C change in global temperatures. That's not a good thing in a world that's expected to heat up 4C in the span of a single century. Now we've got a metric for sea level rise thanks to the *Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research*. In their assessment, one degree Celsius of warming will add 2.3 metres to sea level rise. * Greenhouse gases emitted today will cause sea level to rise for centuries to come. Eac... more ? The American people have suffered a coup d?etat, but they are hesitant to acknowledge it. The regime ruling in Washington today lacks constitutional and legal legitimacy. Americans are ruled by usurpers who claim that the executive branch is above the law and that the US Constitution is a mere ?scrap of paper.? -- Paul Craig Roberts David L Griscom at Cherchez la Verite - 23 hours ago ------------------------------ *Coup d?etat ? Paul Craig Roberts* ------------------------------ July 13, 2013 | Original Here Go here to sign up to receive email notice of this news letter *Coup d?etat* * **Paul Craig Roberts* * **The American people have suffered a coup d?etat, but they are hesitant to acknowledge it. The regime ruling in Washington today lacks constitutional and legal legitimacy. Americans are ruled by usurpers who claim that the executive branch is above the law and that the US Constitution is a mere ?scrap of ... more ? Yeah right .... we really 'trust' Pierre Poilievre to reform Canada's democracy ..... leftdog at Buckdog - 23 hours ago ** [image: Progressive Bloggers] * The root cause of terrorism is terrorists. * *The Honourable Pierre Poilievre, MP* * Minister Responsible for Democratic Reform * * The root cause of stupidity is being stupid. * *Buckdog Politics* * Political nerd, too much time on my hands* *-Hey Conservatives .... where's our missing $3.1 Billion tax dollars??* It Is A Proxy-War in Syria. And, has been for a long time now..... Penny at Penny for your thoughts - 23 hours ago A brief RT interview. * **Israel, Turkey and NATO support rebels and foreigners from more than 25 countries fighting for Syria?s disintegration* and the establishment of an Islamist Caliphate instead, journalist Manuel Ochsenreiter, who's extensively covered the conflict, told RT. *RT:* We are seeing such a sharp change of rhetoric from Turkey after accusations the flotilla attack back in 2010 was a massacre. How did it all change so quickly, because only four months ago Ankara was still pressing with its court case over the incident? *Manuel Ochsenreiter*: Well we have first t... more ? Koch attacks the messenger Libby Spencer at The Impolitic - 23 hours ago When you're a mega-billionaire you don't need Fox News to shill for you against bad press. Instead, like the Kochs, you make up your own facts and launch individualized smear campaigns against legitimate journalists. Like this guy who wrote about the XL Pipeline. In a rebuttal posted on its Web site, KochFacts.com, the company asserted that Sassoon?s story ?deceives readers? by suggesting that Koch Industries stood to benefit from construction of the Keystone XL pipeline ? a denial Sassoon included in his story. KochFacts went on to dismiss Sassoon as a ?professional eco-activist? ... more ? You Say You Want a Revolution noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 1 day ago * * * You Say You Want a Revolution * by Bill Bonner Is it a revolt? Louis XVI asked the Duke de La Rochefoucauld. No, sire, it is a revolution. We are already at the Ides of July. More than half of the year is already behind us. Friday, markets were flat. Neither gold nor stocks did anything worth reporting. July 21 is statistically the hottest day of the year in the Northern Hemisphere. And it's already smokin' hot in Baltimore. The forecast calls for 98 degrees Fahrenheit today. More than 100 later in the week. We're glad we're not there. We lived through 48 summers in Bal... more ? Weekend Photos Southern Man at Southern Man - 1 day ago Saturday was a busy, busy day! A high-school car wash at Cactus Jack's, Southern Man's favorite hang-out in high school where he and HS best friend David put many a high score on the Asteroids and Night Driver. But not Space Invaders or Defender, both of which usually got the better of us. Car Wash Girls A terrific drumming corps. The area geocachers meet up once a month for lunch and general frivolity. Today's was at an area lake pavilion. These guys put out a lot of caches in the area. We appreciate you Kand and Gilo! Yes, we all have funny names. We love to see kids invo... more ? You swear your allegiance to the Constitution, not the government ...dummy! David L Griscom at Cherchez la Verite - 1 day ago ------------------------------ http://youtu.be/wZ2kTyx2mSY Constitution For Dummies by Judge Andrew Napolitano AlternativeNews4U *Published on Feb 10, 2013* Constitution For Dummies by Judge Andrew Napolitano Judge Andrew Napolitano on the history of the federal government's neglect, disdain, and continual erosion of the Constitution from John Adams to George W. Bush. Learn about the Alien and Sedition Act , FISA, and the Patriot Act and what we must do to get back to Constitutional fidelity at the federal level. Originally posted by The Reason Foundation from October ... more ? Amidst Uptick In Political Turmoil, The Egyptian Military Destroys Gaza Tunnels Saman Mohammadi at The Excavator - 1 day ago ** * Gazans call on Egypt not to destroy tunnels * September 30, 2012 . *Brief comment:* The tunnels that connect Gaza to Egypt have been destroyed under* *all Egyptian administrations: Mubarak, Morsi, and the new interim government. These tunnels provide Palestinians with an economic lifeline, but they are also used to transfer weapons and fighters. The Egyptian army says they pose a national security threat to Egypt. Soldiers have been repeatedly attacked by Salafist terrorist groups who have *targeted the army with more determination* because of recent events. With the increas... more ? Reports: Turkey Allows Israel To Use Its Airspace To Attack Syria Saman Mohammadi at The Excavator - 1 day ago *RT source: Israeli strike on Syria was carried out from Turkish base*. Video Title: 'Turkey & Israel collaboration scandal could topple Erdogan if proven' Untitled New Orleans Ladder at New Orleans Ladder - 1 day ago *The Times-Picayune Fiasco: Hey Newhouses, the Stakes are Getting Higher!~Errol Laborde * *OPSB fails to meet inspector general's deadline in access to financial records ~WDSU* *Drive-by journalist charged in Landrieu caper confronts Letten ~The New Orleans Advocate* *Marine Fisheries Service expresses concerns about Myrtle Grove diversion ~Bob Marshall, The Lens* *FEMA Could Put SoLa Levees on the Map ~NOLA DEFENDER* *So we are crystal clear on this ~Slabbed * Peer Review: Theory and Epicycles Harry Dale Huffman at The Earth and Man: Setting the Stage - 1 day ago I have submitted the following comment to the bishop hill site, where they are talking about proposed new changes to peer review: *There is an incipient, general revolution in science, a NEW PARADIGM yet very old; I call it The Once and Future Paradigm , that needs to come out, and peer-review -- any review by current deluded and dogmatically defensive experts -- is incompetent to handle it. Imagine back in Galileo's day, peer review was by ecclesiastic overseers; the situation is similar to that. We are dealing with an incompetent fundamental belief system, maintaining an in... more ? Iraq In Transparency International?s 2013 Global Corruption Barometer Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 1 day ago Transparency International is an organization committed to documenting and fighting corruption around the world. Recently, it released its ?Global Corruption Barometer,? which was a survey of 107 countries on what they thought about graft and bribery. It asked people about the state of corruption in their nation, how institutions were affected by it, and whether it could be countered. As usual, those Iraqis included in the poll did not have a high opinion of their country. The report started with how countries felt about their institutions. When asked which were the most corrupt,... more ? PRESS TV VIDEO: Iran And Iraq Reach New Electricity, Gas Deals Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 1 day ago AP VIDEO: Raw Video Attacks Kill At Least 44 In Iraq Joel Wing at MUSINGS ON IRAQ - 1 day ago Is The GOP's Anti-Hispanic Mania Putting Florida Out Of It's Grasp? DownWithTyranny at DownWithTyranny! - 1 day ago But it isn't Boehner that keeps Ros-Lentinen in office; it's Debbie Wasserman Schultz Last week, Nate Cohn did a superb analysis of how the GOP is blowing it's chances to thrive politically in purple Florida, a state with a mighty 29 electoral votes. As he points out, it's a lot more dire than when-- for the same anti-Hispanic reasons-- they turned little New Mexico and Nevada with 11 electoral votes between them blue. Florida?s Hispanic population has exploded over the last decade, growing by 57 percent between 2000 and 2010. As a result, the Hispanic share of eligible voters su... more ? Contention is so high in Chicago, you apparently have to apply to even sit in a public meeting Chalk Face, PhD at SCHOOLS MATTER @ THE CHALK FACE - 1 day ago Something seems very wrong that you have to be approved to sit in on a public meeting. What is the Board trying to hide? Tagged: chicago, cps, school board, school closings The Winged Beatle Paul Coker at News Spike - 1 day ago THE WINGED BEATLE from Billy Martin on Vimeo. Beetle with an A - Magic with a K TheRottenApple2010 - TheWingedBeatle is the first part in the ARE3RA trilogy leading up to TheRevelAtion2012. The Winged Beatle was released September 11, 2010. This movie file is 480x360 and good for slower connections. If you want a higher resolution in DVD quality, subscribe at TheWingedBeatle.com. The Murrays of Dunblane Paul Coker at News Spike - 1 day ago He's no right in th'hied.... Dunblane Unburried Archived DUNBLANE UNBURIED - Sandra Uttley from Spike1138 on Vimeo. According to Andy Murray, tennis is 'fixed' and everyone on the professional circuit knows matches are being affected by gambling. According to Andy Murray: * It's pretty disappointing for all the players but everyone knows it goes on. * * * ** ** * * * * * Sitting in the front row was Britain?s tennis-playing prime minister, David Cameron ? just behind him was Alex Salmond, the Scottish first minister.* * * * With a referendum on Scottish independence coming ... more ? Glenn Kessler is chasing DiMaggio?s streak! bob somerby at the daily howler - 1 day ago *MONDAY, JULY 15, 2013* *Goes 2-for-4 against Warren:* In 1941, Joe DiMaggio hit safely in 56 consecutive games. Glenn Kessler is chasing him down. Yesterday, the Washington Post?s Ahab-like checker of facts extended his own current streak. Kessler went 2-for-4 in Pinocchios against Massachusetts southpaw Elizabeth Warren. This extends his hitting streak against Obama and his ilk. Long ago, Kessler took his hacks against both major parties. Now, he?s being platooned. He only goes to the plate against the nation?s lefties. For our previous post about Kessler?s streak, click here. U... more ? Unexpected on Baffin Island James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 1 day ago Mexico: We Were Camping When My Nephew Suddenly Shouted: A UFO! Inexplicata IHU at Inexplicata-The Journal of Hispanic Ufology - 1 day ago *Source: SIPSE http://sipse.com/milenio/estabamos-acampando-y-de-pronto-mi-sobrino-grita-un-ovni-41108.html Date: 07.11.13* *Mexico: ?We Were Camping When My Nephew Suddenly Shouted: A UFO!?* *By Jorge Moreno, SIPSE* MERIDA ? UFOs have also been reported in the city of Hunucm?, but two of these cases have involved peculiar situations. Several days ago I interviewed Ms. Rosario Caamal, 39. She says she?s been fortunate to see unidentified flying objects over her home city on three separate occasions. ?The first time was in my father?s ranch, about ten years ago. Several relatives wer... more ? Too perfect but also too awful! bob somerby at the daily howler - 1 day ago *MONDAY, JULY 15, 2013* *Rem Rieder?s correct complaint about the mainstream press:* This morning, in USA Today, Rem Rider hammers the mainstream press for the way it covered the killing of Trayvon Martin and the Zimmerman trial. For twenty-one years, Rieder was editor of American Journalism Review. Three weeks ago, he became USA Today?s media editor. This morning, he hammers the mainstream press. This is the way he starts, with the headlines in bold: RIEDER 7/15/13 : *Media got Zimmerman story wrong from start/The role of the media cannot be ignored in the Zimmerman case* It's c... more ? Busted! Mythbusters Not Allowed to Talk About RFID Chips Mark Daniels at GLOBAL POLITICAL AWAKENING - 1 day ago [image: Related Posts Plugin for WordPress, Blogger...] Joe Martino In what has become a controversial story as time goes on, due to the increasing research into RFID technology, it still remains a little unclear as to exactly why *Mythbusters *was not able to do a show discussing RFID technology. As Adam Savage, co-host of *Mythbusters*, stated himself: We were going to do RFID and on several levels, you know, how hackable, how reliable, how trackable, etc. But this idea was met with resistance as the show?s producers began looking into the technology and speaking with compani... more ? The Next Step on Immigration Fun Times in the House Jonathan Bernstein at A plain blog about politics - 1 day ago Good reporting today from NR's Jonathan Strong highlights the weird dynamic on the next step for immigration reform. Here's the deal. Most Republicans, at the very least, want to pass something -- so that they can deflect at least some of the blame for comprehensive reform failing, and at least to some extent because they really do support some legislation. But they can't pass a comprehensive bill at least not without relying on mostly Democratic votes , or even a mostly comprehensive bill. So the plan has been to pass a series of small bills that have wider support. The problem? ... more ? modified Oberon at GlobaLove Think Tank - 1 day ago monkey sniper Oberon at GlobaLove Think Tank - 1 day ago it's a crazy world... ain't it ? Argentina: Mutilated Cattle Appear in San Andres de Giles, Buenos Aires Inexplicata IHU at Inexplicata-The Journal of Hispanic Ufology - 1 day ago *Source: VISION OVNI Argentina Date: 07.12.13* *Argentina: Mutilated Cattle Appear in San Andres de Giles, Buenos Aires* ***Over 20 Animals Have Turned Up Dead Since June, Presenting Strange Incisions*** By Andrea P?rez Simondini Mutilation cases in 2013 have multiplied perhaps with the same intensity as they did back in that incredible year 2002, when everything turned to madness around the cases. In this instance, we are availing ourselves of a report by Cesar Alomar, a user of the Vision OVNI page on Facebook, who informs us of the number of animals turning up in San Andres de... more ? A Thousand Points of Blight Karen Garcia at Sardonicky - 1 day ago At a time when one out of every four American children lives in a food-insecure household, when one in three people is poor or near-poor because of unemployment and underemployment, when income disparity is at its most extreme level since the Gilded Age .... House Republicans have yanked food stamp funding from the Farm Bill, endangering the 50 million people relying on a program that is already woefully inadequate. The average monthly food stipend per person is only $136. Most recipients run out of grocery money by the third week. But adding insult to injury is what Republicans d... more ? The Wrongest Side of History noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 1 day ago * * * The Wrongest Side of History * by Will Durst ?This week?s tale is a horror story about lessons learned by the GOP from the 2012 presidential election. And those teachable moments are? nothing. Zero. Zip. Nada. Empty voids. ?Hear the hollow roar of the Pod People. See them lash out at the unknown. Feel their blind terror of a future they don?t understand. It?s Son of the Bride of the Attack of the Robot Amnesiacs! Part 6.? They say one sign of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again expecting different results. Which means it can?t be long before the entire Rep... more ? More Bad News For Christy Clark`s LNG Superpower Dreams Breaking Grant G at The Straight Goods - 1 day ago * ** **Japan moves closer to restarting nuclear reactors** * * * *The Associated Press* *Monday, July 15, 2013 | 12:07 a.m.* *Japan moved a step closer to restarting nuclear reactors Monday as four utility companies applied for safety inspections of 10 idled plants, the clearest sign of a return to atomic energy nearly two and a half years after the Fukushima disaster.* *With all but two of the country's 50 reactors offline since a tsunami swept through the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant in March 2011, Japan has been almost without nuclear energy that once supplied about a third of its powe... more ? Francesco Guicciardini Prize ISA HIST Section Book Prize Daniel Nexon at Duck of Minerva - 1 day ago Francesco Guicciardini 1483-1540 was an Italian historian and statesman who served in the Florentine and papal diplomatic services and was the author, among other works, of the landmark History of Italy Storia d?Italia , a foundational work on statecraft and grand strategy which combined careful historical research with general theorizing about the ethics and practices of Continue reading What We Know, Don?t Know, Can?t Know and Need to Know About the DOD?s Classified Study on Drone Deaths Charli Carpenter at Duck of Minerva - 1 day ago Just before Independence Day, an analyst for a defense research agency stated in a media interview that a classified DoD study shows that drones are likelier to cause civilian harm than attacks from manned fighters. Lawrence Lewis, a researcher for the Center for Naval Analyses, says these findings resulted from a statistical analysis he conducted Continue reading Race, Gender and Civic Justice in America Charli Carpenter at Duck of Minerva - 1 day ago The idea that citizens should be empowered by law to lethally judge who is a criminal threat is dangerous and wrong. Here?s one reason why: Just a small-n social experiment? Yes, though here are some stats to demonstrate how this does and is likely to play out in the criminal justice system.. SOCIETY DOWN: We overtake Fox! bob somerby at the daily howler - 1 day ago *MONDAY, JULY 15, 2013* *Prelude?Nagourney?s selections:* For us, a very large question emerged from the Zimmerman trial, as we saw the liberal world overtaking the world of Fox. But first, consider two front-page treatments of that trial in today?s New York Times. On that front page, Lizette Alvarez offers a ?News Analysis? concerning the jury?s verdict. Midway through her report, a very rare moment occurs: ALVAREZ 7/15/13 : The murder charge required a showing that Mr. Zimmerman was full of ill will, hatred, spite or evil intent when he shot Mr. Martin. But prosecutors had lit... more ? How It Really Is noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 1 day ago Photography Backdrop Stand Tutorial Debra Hawkins at Housewife Eclectic - 1 day ago VeryJane.com provided the backdrops featured with this Backdrop Stand Tutorial. The stand was created 100% by my husband and I and all opinions are my own. When I started my photography business six years ago, I began shopping for backdrop stands, but, I couldn't find exactly what I wanted. I wanted more width and height than I could easily find at the time and I really wanted my stand to have two cross beams ? one tall for brides/adults and one shorter for babies and toddlers. Price was also a factor; I needed the stand to be affordable. After talking about it with my husband, w... more ? Argentina: Jujuy Worker Claims Having Stood 20 Meters from ?Water-Sampling? UFO Inexplicata IHU at Inexplicata-The Journal of Hispanic Ufology - 1 day ago *Source: El Intransigente Jujuy, Argentina Date: 14 July 2013* *Argentina: Jujuy Worker Claims Having Stood 20 Meters from ?Water-Sampling? UFO* JUJUY ? ?I never told anyone, only my family, and I want people to know that this is something I?ll never forget in my life. I?m 72, and this is something that exists,? said Roberto Moreira, a retiree who took the decision to retell in detail his close encounter with a UFO following a series of very strange episodes in Jujuy, all of them linked to sightings of unidentified flying objects. It is believed that these objects ?study? the are... more ? It's Monday... Adrienne at Adrienne's Corner - 1 day ago *and Erica is planted firmly in front of my monitor until breakfast is forthcoming, weeds are calling out my name, and grass is begging for water.* There is nothing else left to be said about Zimmerman except, It could be you next time. When the president of the United States interjects himself into a state criminal case, exploits racism, denigrates the court system, and wages war on some poor guy who was trying to save his own life, no one is safe. *Oh Lord - now she's pacing back and forth... * Hart ID-ALEC Facing Federal Charges? 2old2care at Because I Can - 1 day ago I have to wonder if all ALEC members are slimeballs - my guess would be yes, but that is just my opinion. *Former Rep. Hart may face federal criminal charges* Posted by Betsy June 30, 2013 7:31 p.m. ? 1 comment Federal authorities may be laying the groundwork for criminal charges against tax-protesting former Idaho state Rep. Phil Hart. In bankruptcy court documents, federal officials are charging that Hart lied under oath, concealed or destroyed records and attempted to ?hinder, delay or defraud his creditors, including the Internal Revenue Service.? The filings by the U.S. Ba... more ? Reasonable apprehension of bias James C Morton at Morton's Musings - 1 day ago In murder cases bail is considered by a Superior Court judge. Is it problematic for the bail judge to be the trial judge? No; see R. v. Williams, 2013 ONCA 477: [2] The fact that Whitten J. presided at the appellant's unsuccessful bail application and then at the trial, almost two years later, did not create a reasonable apprehension of bias. The trial judge's expression of opinion at the bail hearing as to the strength of the Crown's case was justified by the record before him and, indeed, was later borne out by the evidence called at the trial. The trial judge was not th... more ? The Collapse of Civilization noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 1 day ago * * * The Collapse of Civilization * by Steve Thomas That we are approaching the collapse is largely beyond debate. It is unnecessary to give a detailed examination here of the factors by which the collapse may come about. My purpose, instead, is twofold: 1. To explore the form the collapse may take; that is, to speculate on what we will actually experience as global industrial civilization crumbles, and more importantly 2. To explore how we may hope to create and perpetuate egalitarianism in a state of civilizational collapse. *What to Expect:* How will we know the collapse is ... more ? ?Middle-class Revolution? Fuels Pentagon War Plan noreply@blogger.com CoyotePrime at Running 'Cause I Can't Fly - 1 day ago * * * ?Middle-class Revolution? Fuels Pentagon War Plan * Neither governments nor capitalists can stop these 12 forces. by Paul B. Farrell Early in the Iraq war the Bush Pentagon predicted that ?by 2020 there is little doubt something drastic is happening,? reported Fortune. ?As the planet?s carrying capacity shrinks, an ancient pattern of desperate, all-out wars over food, water, and energy supplies would emerge. Warfare is defining human life.? Recently the tick-tick-ticking became louder in ?The Middle-Class Revolution,? a Wall Street Journal feature by the conservative Stanf... more ? Making Matters Worse Owen Gray at Northern Reflections - 1 day ago Perhaps it results from reading too many balance sheets. But Edward Burkhardt clearly suffers from EDD -- Emotional Deficit Disorder. The head of the Montreal, Maine and Atlantic Railway walked into Lac Megantic last week and blamed someone else for the tragedy: ?It was our employee that was responsible for setting the brakes on the train,? Burkhardt told journalists. ?That employee is under investigation and is not working.? He also suggested that some local firefighters, who were called to put out a fire on the unmanned train, might have unwittingly tampered with the brakes. ... more ? Related articles Toshi Seeger, wife of Pete Seeger, dies at 91 telegraph.co.uk Toshi Seeger, wife of folk singer Pete Seeger, dies at 91 mercurynews.com Posted by opit at 11:48 am No comments: Post a Comment Newer Post Older Post Home Subscribe to: Post Comments Atom Compliment Posed as Problem Free Country Notes Colorful fall landscapes - Flickr Home Page opitslinkfest.blogspot.ca Opit's LinkFest! Chemtrails Exposed : Global Engineering PsyOps Climate of FUD Time to end the bias at the Met office The futility of climate models The missing link in the Climate Change Debate Debate ? I can't find any ! Criminalisation of Islam in British Media Elitocide : Bangladesh Was there an Islamic'Genocide' of Hindus ? And who were these 'Islamic' murderers ? Propaganda during the British Raj special note of Harjas Kaur's comment Opit's Notes - Old Sidebar Lists 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Link Love First Nations' cancer rates linked to oilsands toxins in wild food tarsands Magnetic cleanup of oil spill The Green Fraud How I lost 800 quid through PayPal 'Renewables' : expensive and unstable...German experience Canadian ship sourced spill preparedness Primer on Bush Family anh Pages Law - and Failure to Convict Gay/Religion Belief,Wonder & Dogma Uranium Dust Climatism Undiscovered Outrage 'Meddling' The Great Game Online Media Environmental Challenges Broken Search - Corexit Water NSA was so secret its name was hidden BiPartisan Tyranny History of Education Clean Coal Air War Subscribe To Posts Comments Translate Blog Archive ?? 2015 34 ?? January 34 ?? 2014 1012 ?? December 62 ?? November 52 ?? October 70 ?? September 69 ?? August 60 ?? July 60 ?? June 76 ?? May 104 ?? April 105 ?? March 119 ?? February 104 ?? January 131 ?? 2013 1585 ?? December 118 ?? November 111 ?? October 123 ?? September 130 ?? August 138 ?? July 146 31 July - Blogs I'm Following II 31 July - The View 31 July - My Yahoo! 31 July - Blogs I'm Following 30 July - Netvibes V 30 July - Netvibes IV 30 July - Netvibes III 30 Netvibes II 30 July - Netvibes I 30 July - Blogs I'm Following II 30 July - Blogs I'm Following 30 July - Notes Washington Times - 27 July 29 July - Blogs I'm Following II 29 July - Noted Articles Stumble Upon 29 July - Blogs I'm Following 28 July - Blogs I'm Following II 28 July - iGoogle II 28 July - iGoogle 28 July - RSS SnapShot! III 28 July - RSS SnapShot! II 28 July - RSS SnapShot! I 28 July - Blogs I'm Following 27 July - Blogs I'm Following II 27 July - Blogs I'm Following 26 July - My Yahoo! 26 July - My Feedly! 26 July - Blogs I'm Following II 26 July - Breaking News 26 July - Netvibes V 26 July - Netvibes IV 26 July - Netvibes III 26 July - Netvibes II 26 July - Netvibes I 26 July - Blogs I'm Following 25 July - Blogs I'm Following II 25 July - Quick Notes 25 July - Blogs I'm Following 24 July - My Feedly! 24 July - My Yahoo! 24 July - Blogs I'm Following II 24 July - The View 24 July - Blogs I'm Following 23 July - Blogs I'm Following II 23 July - Blogs I'm Following 23 July - The View 23 July - How Tweet! 22 July - RSS SnapShot! III 22 July - RSS SnapShot! II 22 July - RSS SnapShot! I 22 July- Blogs I'm Following 21July - Blogs i'm Following II 21 July - My Feedly! 21 July - Blogs I'm Following 20 July - My Yahoo! 20 July - Blogs I'm Following II 20 July - Blogs I'm Following 19 July - Blogs I'm Following II 19 July - Blogs I'm Following 18 July - The View on Facebook 18 July - Blogs I'm Following II Redress - Feedly 18 July - Blogs I'm Following 18 July - RSS SnapShot! III 18 July - RSS SnapShot! II 18 July - RSS SnapShot! I 17 July - Blogs I'm Following II 17 July - The View 16 July - iGoogle I 17 July - Blogs I'm Following 16 July - My Yahoo! 16 July - Blogs I'm Following III 16 July - Blogs I'm Following II 16 July - Blogs I'm Following 15 July - Blogs I'm Following 14 July - Blogs I'm Following II 14 July - Blogs I'm Following 13 July - Blogs I'm Following II 13 July - The View 13 July - Blogs I'm Following 13 July - My Yahoo! 13 July - Netvibes 5 13 July - Netvibes 4 13 July - Netvibes 3 13 July - Netvibes 2 13 July - Netvibes 1 12 July - My Feedly! 12 July - Blogs I'm Following II 12 July - Blogs I'm Following 11 July - Blogs I'm Following II 11 July - Blogs I'm Following 10 July - Blogs I'm Following II 10 July - iGoogle II 10 July - iGoogle I 10 July - MyYahoo! 10 July - My Feedly! 10 July - Blogs I'm Following 10 July - News Notes 10 July - Big Think 10 July - RSS SnapShot! III 10 July - RSS SnapShot! II 10 July - RSS SnapShot! I FRESH the Movie 10 July - Jesse Ventura 9 July - Gasland II on Industry Influence on Gover... 9 July - Blogs I'm Following II 9 July - News Notes 9 July - MSM 9 July - Netvibes 5 9 July - Netvibes 4 9 July - Netvibes 3 9 July - Netvibes 2 9 July - Netvibes I 9 July - Blogs I'm Following 8 July - Blogs I'm Following 7 July - Blogs I'm Following II 7 July - Blogs I'm Following 6 July - Blogs I'm Following II 6 July - My Yahoo! 6 July - Blogs I'm Following 5 July - Blogs I'm Following II 5 July - My Feedly! 5 July - RSS SnapShot! III 5 July - RSS SnapShot! II 5 July - RSS SnapShot! I 5 July - Blogs I'm Following 4 July - Blogs I'm Following II 4 July - My Feedly! 4 July - Blogs I'm Following 3 July - My Yahoo! 3 July - Blogs I'm Following II 3 July - Breaking News 3 July - Netvibes 5 3 July - Netvibes 4 3 July - Blogs I'm Following 3 July - Netvibes 3 3 July - Netvibes 2 3 July - Netvibes I 3 July - News and MSM 2 July - Blogs I'm Following News Notes iGoogle II iGoogle I 1 July - Blogs I'm Following II 1 July - Blogs I'm Following ?? June 139 ?? May 154 ?? April 167 ?? March 151 ?? February 130 ?? January 78 ?? 2012 2 ?? June 2 ?? 2011 4 ?? December 1 ?? September 3 ?? 2010 17 ?? September 14 ?? April 3 ?? 2009 25 ?? December 7 ?? November 6 ?? October 10 ?? September 2 About Me opit I've been 'around' for a few years now, pursuing the shifting goal of a sharable home-made surfers resource site focused on ease of use and variety of mostly adult whoa : I didn't say prurient content. View my complete profile Followers Search This Blog Loading... Total Pageviews Pages Home