Thousands gathered in New York City's Union Square and Times Square over the weekend to protest the shocking acquittal of George Zimmerman in the Trayvon Martin case. The Justice Department is beginning to reexamine the case now that the criminal trial though not its repercussions is now over, the NYT reports: The federal inquiry, which was started shortly after the shooting last year but had been delayed while the state criminal trial in Florida was under way, was being restarted after civil rights leaders called on the Justice Department to re-examine the case. The leaders said Sunday that they remained convinced that the shooting had a racial element. Mr. Martin, 17, was black. ?There is a pattern of George Zimmerman making dozens of calls to 911 over several years, frequently about young men of color,? Benjamin T. Jealous, the president of the N.A.A.C.P., said in an interview on Sunday. Mr. Zimmerman and his family have defended the shooting as an act of self-defense. In a statement on Sunday, the Justice Department said that now that the state criminal trial was over, it would continue its examination of the circumstances in the shooting. President Obama released a statement over the weekend urging calm after the verdict: The death of Trayvon Martin was a tragedy.? Not just for his family, or for any one community, but for America.? I know this case has elicited strong passions.? And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher.? But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken.? I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son.? And as we do, we should ask ourselves if we?re doing all we can to widen the circle of compassion and understanding in our own communities.? We should ask ourselves if we?re doing all we can to stem the tide of gun violence that claims too many lives across this country on a daily basis.? We should ask ourselves, as individuals and as a society, how we can prevent future tragedies like this.? As citizens, that?s a job for all of us.? That?s the way to honor Trayvon Martin. we asked the black community to stand in solidarity when we were the victims of injustice, and, in time, they did. can we do any less. while people of color have a longer history of unequal justice than the glbt community, we who know our own history know the sting of murderers walking away free or with a slap on the wrist. remember the killer of moscone and milk served only 2 years in prison, barely a year for each life he took. gay lives are worth less than straight lives... unless they are black lives. Derrick...yes he would have...The lead investigator himself stated that he was preparing manslaughter charges to be filed when the case was snatched away by the states attorneys...who by the way withheld evidence in order to secure a prosecution. Because of the circumstances, the police wanted to have the facts before they made an arrest. It wasnt a clear cut case of GZ maliciously shooting a teenager. That was drummed up by the media and turned into a political issue. The majority of self defense cases are investigated first. The majority of the people who are outraged are the people who never bothered to learn the facts and are relying on the media for their information. If the watched the trial from the beginning...not the soundbites...they would realize the verdict was just and that this case was blown out of proportion. I was anti GZ until I did, and I was amazed at the actual facts.