THE?UK?S data watchdog has told Google that its privacy policies break?Britain?s data laws. CARRIE Hindmarsh, one of the advertising industry?s most powerful women, has stepped down as joint chief executive of M&C Saatchi after more than two decades at the agency. BRITAIN?S public spending watchdog has launched a scathing critique of the government?s rural broadband scheme, saying the process has been blighted by a dearth of competition. NEGOTIATIONS over restructuring Hibu?s ?2.3bn debt pile have been pushed back as the Yellow Pages publisher and its creditors struggle to reach an agreement. NCC, the Manchester-based IT and computer security firm, saw its shares rise 12 per cent yesterday as results beat expectations and the company moved closer to grabbing the .secure web address that it hopes will revolutionise its business. THE COST of switching superfast internet policies is set to plummet under proposals from Ofcom designed to improve competition. WILLIAM Hill is in talks to acquire Tomwaterhouse.com, an Australian bookmaker, the latest in a spree of acquisitions from the UK?s biggest gambling company. CINEWORLD, the UK?s largest movie theatre operator, once again blew away City forecasts yesterday, posting a 10.5 per cent rise in sales thanks to the success of blockbusters including Iron Man 3 and the Life of Pi. PERFORM, the sports media group which boasts billionaire Len Blavatnik as its biggest shareholder, is set to pay??40m for Opta, the sports statistics firm beloved of football obsessives. EE, the UK?s first 4G network, has doubled connection speeds in 12 cities including London ? although it plans to charge extra. THREE former Olympus executives were handed suspended jail sentences yesterday for their part in a wide-ranging corporate cover-up. YVES Saint Laurent?s chief executive Paul Deneve yesterday quit the luxury brand to take a senior role at Apple. EGYPTIAN Prime Minister Mohammed Morsi vowed to remain in office last night, despite widespread protests. THE FEDERAL Reserve yesterday approved tough capital requirements for banks, implementing the Basel III set of rules and warning that stricter requirements are yet to come. PORTUGAL?S government was thrown further into chaos yesterday when the leader of the ruling coalition?s junior partner quit as foreign minister ? the second senior resignation in two days. GEORGE Osborne pledged yesterday that he would continue to influence how the Royal Bank of Scotland RBS is run, despite claims that his interference is harming the bank. THE CARNAGE in the bond market in the past two months has reduced the assets of the Pimco Total Return Fund, the world?s largest bond fund, by 8.5 per cent, Morningstar data showed yesterday. CARPHONE Warehouse Group is set for a ?25m windfall after it laid out plans to list the 7.5 per cent of the company that recently entered the hands of US retailer Best Buy. THE FOUNDERS of Bebo have bought back the once-mighty social network for $1m ?659,000 , five years after selling it for $850m. AS BRADLEY Wiggins cycled to victory in last year?s Tour de France victory, online cycling retailer Wiggle enjoyed a 21 per cent rise in annual sales, the firm revealed yesterday. GOOGLE won a significant victory in a New York court yesterday, when a panel of judges said that a digital books case against the web giant should not be treated as a class action. NOKIA has struck a deal with German giant Siemens to buy out its 50 per cent stake in the two firms? joint venture for ?1.7bn ?1.5bn . PENGUIN and Random House have wrapped up their merger, in a deal that creates the world?s biggest book publisher. SAINSBURY?S has become the latest firm to enter the increasingly-crowded mobile market, launching a tie-up with Vodafone that will go live later this summer. INVESTORS put their cash behind Monitise yesterday after the world?s biggest mobile payments company announced that it had signed a deal with?Telefonica.