Ist?llet f?r att se dessa tekniktrender, som ocks? r?kar vara de med st?rst m?jlighet att skapa ett mer klimatv?nligt energisystem, har Vattenfalls ledning storsatsat p? fossil energi och k?rnkraft. Resultatet ?r att Vattenfall nu inte bara sett till att slarva bort v?ra gemensamma tillg?ngar, utan ?ven satt Europa och de politiska beslutsfattarna i en l?ngt sv?rare situation n?r det g?ller att klara klimatutmaningen. Satsningen p? k?rnkraft i Tyskland har ocks? varit en misslyckad aff?r. De reaktorer som Vattenfall k?pt upp i Tyskland har p? grund av olika tekniska problem inte varit i drift p? ?ratal. Och nu n?r Tyskland beslutat sig f?r att helt avveckla k?rnkraften st?ngs ?ven Vattenfalls ol?nsamma reaktorer, vilket inneb?r ytterligare ekonomiska f?rluster. Bolaget har st?mt tyska staten p? 3 miljarder euro f?r att de tvingas avveckla reaktorerna. Fr?gan ?r hur stora de totala f?rlusterna egentligen ?r f?r den misslyckade satsningen p? den omoderna k?rnkraften. CHERNOBYL Ukraina den 26 april RIA Novosti - Ukrainas president Viktor Janukovitj markerade den 27: e ?rsdagen av v?rldens v?rsta k?rnkraftsolyckan genom att tacka Ryssland, USA och en rad andra l?nder och organisationer f?r deras st?d av Tjernobylskyddsfonden, vilket finansierar byggandet av en ny omfattande struktur f?r resterna av k?rnkraftverket i Tjernobyl i norra Ukraina. P? uppdrag av Ukraina skulle jag vilja uttrycka min tacksamhet till europeiska l?nder, Europeiska kommissionen, Europeiska banken f?r ?teruppbyggnad och utveckling, Ryssland, USA, Japan och Kanada f?r deras aktiva deltagande i Tjernobylskyddsfonden, Janukovitj sade fredag Under ett bes?k p? anl?ggningen, som ?vergavs 1986 efter en explosion d?r som skickade en plym av str?lning ?ver stora delar av Europa. Janukovitj sade 2014, kommer Kiev har spenderat ?ver 100 miljoner dollar p? nya bost?der, som ?r utformad f?r att glida ?ver den befintliga sarkofagen t?cker resterna av Unit 4, d?r explosionen intr?ffade. Den nya s?kra inneslutningen projekt, som syftar till att omvandla omr?det till ett s?kert och milj?m?ssigt stabilt omr?de, finansieras genom bidrag fr?n ?ver 40 givarl?nder till EBRD Chernobyl Shelter Fund. Ryssland har bidragit med totalt 50 miljoner euro f?r fonden. Projektets genomf?rande kommer att avsev?rt minska risken f?r ytterligare radiologisk kontaminering och underl?tta dekonstruktion av den befintliga sarkofagen, som byggdes strax efter katastrofen och har f?rs?mrats under n?gra ?r. De 29.000-tons ny bel?ggning struktur kommer bifoga ett omr?de som m?ter 257 meter med 164 meter med sp?nner 110 meter h?ga, och ska vara f?rdig 2015. CHERNOBYL Ukraine , April 26 RIA Novosti ? Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych marked the 27th anniversary of the world?s worst nuclear disaster by thanking Russia, the US and a number of other countries and organizations for their support of the Chernobyl Shelter Fund, which is funding the construction of a new covering structure for the remains of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in northern Ukraine. ?On behalf of Ukraine I would like to express gratitude to European countries, the European Commission, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Russia, the United States, Japan and Canada for their active participation in the Chernobyl Shelter Fund,? Yanukovych said Friday during a visit to the plant, which was abandoned in 1986 after an explosion there that sent a plume of radiation over large parts of Europe. Yanukovych said by 2014, Kiev will have spent over $100 million on the new shelter, which is designed to be slid over the existing sarcophagus covering the remains of Unit 4, where the explosion happened. The New Safe Confinement project, which aims to transform the site into a safe and environmentally stable area, is funded through contributions by over 40 donor nations to the EBRD Chernobyl Shelter Fund. Russia has contributed a total of 50 million euros to the fund. The project?s implementation will significantly reduce the risk of further radiological contamination and facilitate the deconstruction of the existing sarcophagus, which was built soon after the disaster and has been deteriorating for some years. The 29,000-ton new covering structure will enclose a territory measuring 257 meters by 164 meters using spans 110 meters high, and is due for completion in 2015. Projektets genomf?rande kommer att minska risken f?r ytterligare radiologisk kontaminering och underl?tta dekonstruktion av Object Shelter, ofta kallade sarkofagen. Dess genomf?rande kommer ocks? att hj?lpa till att hantera de ekonomiska och sociala fr?gor med anknytning till deaktivering av Tjernobyl, Ukrainska f?rste vice premi?rminister Valerij Khoroshkovsky sagt. A ruling party candidate in the July 21 Upper House election boasted about her achievements in dealing with the declining birthrate and addressed other issues facing Japan. But she did not mention the nation?s changing policy on nuclear energy. Her main rival criticized the government and took shots at a politician over a recent gaffe. But she, too, refrained from delving into the issue of nuclear energy. Around Japan, arguments are being heard about the future of nuclear power generation. But in Fukushima Prefecture, where 150,000 residents continue to live away from their homes because of the 2011 nuclear disaster, very little has been said about the issue from the two main candidates. Masako Mori, the incumbent of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, has been reluctant to explain the pro-nuclear policy of her party for fear of angering voters who have yet to resume their normal lives and have been hurt by insensitive comments by politicians. Emi Kaneko, the incumbent of the opposition Democratic Party of Japan, is shying away from expressing her known anti-nuclear stance over concerns of being labeled a hypocrite or offending the thousands of workers in the prefecture who depend on the nuclear industry for their livelihoods. The reapportionment of Upper House seats reduced the number of seats in Fukushima Prefecture in the July 21 election from two to one. Mori, Kaneko and four other candidates are facing off for that lone seat. After Prime Minister Shinzo Abe led the LDP to victory in the Lower House election in December and gained control of government, his administration switched course on nuclear policy and is now seeking to resume operations at nuclear reactors declared safe by the Nuclear Regulation Authority. Four electric power companies on July 8 applied for a resumption of operations at 10 reactors in five nuclear plants. The next day, Mori gave a speech at a public hall in Kawamata, part of which is still off-limits to residents due to high radiation levels from the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant that was crippled by earthquake and tsunami on March 11, 2011. ?When I think about why Fukushima had to suffer such damage from the major natural disaster, I feel like blaming heaven,? Mori said. ?My mission is to protect our homeland and our children.? She touched upon her experiences as state minister in charge of measures to deal with the declining birthrate, noting that she brought four obstetrician-gynecologists from around Japan to Fukushima Prefecture, which had been facing a shortage. However, she said not a word about nuclear energy. When the Upper House election campaign officially began on July 4, Mori gave speeches around Fukushima with Abe. When the campaign started for the Lower House election in December, Abe chose Fukushima for his first speeches, seeking to win the understanding of residents for the resumption of nuclear plant operations. In his Upper House election campaign speeches, Abe has apologized for the nuclear accident, but he has not touched upon nuclear policy itself. Mori was mum on the issue as well, following the pre-campaign instructions of a Diet member from Fukushima. The message was clear: Arguing for the administration?s policy of resuming reactor operations in Fukushima would only turn off voters. ?You may face a difficult situation because of discrepancies that will arise from your standing as a lawmaker from Fukushima and as a Cabinet minister,? the lawmaker told her. ?You should be careful about what you say.? Exacerbating the situation for the LDP candidate, Sanae Takaichi, the party?s policy chief, stressed on June 17 that no one in Fukushima has died as a direct result of the nuclear accident. About 1,400 Fukushima residents have died after being forced to evacuate because of the nuclear accident. Criticism over Takaichi?s comment flooded the LDP Fukushima prefectural chapter as well as the offices of lawmakers from the prefecture. Callers demanded an apology from Takaichi and wanted to know if the prefectural chapter planned to take action. Mori was clearly rattled by the controversy. At a party function on June 18, she asked a high-ranking prefectural chapter official for advice. The official said, ?Show your anger because that is the consensus of the people of Fukushima.? The following day, Mori met with Takaichi in the Diet to lodge a protest. Later, with tears in her eyes, Mori told reporters, ?I am very angry.? The LDP canceled all planned appearances by Takaichi in Fukushima Prefecture during the Upper House campaign. LDP campaign speeches in the prefecture have not mentioned the party?s nuclear policy. On July 5, Mori visited a temporary housing facility in Iwaki. Among those living there were evacuees from Naraha, about 40 kilometers to the north. ?We have caused you so much inconvenience,? Mori said as she shook hands with one voter. Yukiei Matsumoto, the Naraha mayor, also met Mori there. ?Anyone who talks about resuming operations with the situation we have here would have rocks thrown at them,? he later said. Although Takaichi apologized and retracted her remark, the DPJ?s Kaneko used the comment to criticize the government. ?Should our lives and lifestyles be dependent on a government and ruling party that make comments that take life so cheaply?? Kaneko asked in a July 6 speech in Iwaki. Kaneko has long called for moving away from nuclear energy. But during her 25-minute speech, she talked about nuclear policy for only 90 seconds. ?The time has come for the government to be responsible for creating a new structure,? she said. When her party was in power, the government shut down all reactors following the Fukushima nuclear accident and set a goal of eventually ending operations at all nuclear plants by the 2030s. However, the DPJ government did approve the resumption of operations at two reactors at the Oi nuclear power plant in Fukui Prefecture in June 2012. The DPJ came under heavy criticism for that decision from anti-nuclear activists. Although Kaneko may feel hesitant to openly express her views on nuclear energy, Koichiro Genba, the former foreign minister who heads her campaign headquarters, harshly criticized the LDP-led government?s position at a July 4 speech near JR Fukushima Station. ?It is as though the nuclear accident never happened,? he said. ?At the very center of the government?s economic growth strategy is the export of nuclear plant technology.? Among those in the crowd were about 100 employees of electric power companies and major electrical equipment companies with labor unions that belong to Rengo Japanese Trade Union Confederation . ?Rejecting the export of nuclear plant technology will antagonize the electrical equipment sector,? said Michiyuki Kageyama, who heads Rengo's Fukushima prefectural chapter. About 4,000 people still work at the Fukushima No. 1 and No. 2 nuclear plants, and many oppose a complete break away from nuclear energy. Kageyama told a DPJ lawmaker from Fukushima that he was troubled by Genba?s remark. Having approved the resumption of the two Oi reactors, the DPJ has not outright rejected bringing other idled reactors online. In its campaign manifesto, the DPJ states, ?Only those reactors that have been confirmed safe by the Nuclear Regulation Authority will be allowed to resume operations.? The DPJ Fukushima chapter?s local manifesto contains a call to decommission all reactors. But Kaneko refrained from taking a similar strong stand before the start of the campaign. She only started to touch upon that argument on July 4. ?Since we gave the approval to resume reactor operations, there are limits to what we can now say,? a DPJ lawmaker from Fukushima said. The candidates for the Japanese Communist Party and Social Democratic Party have clearly staked out positions against nuclear energy. ?We cannot allow the political forces who have abandoned the people of Fukushima to promote resumed reactor operations and export nuclear technology to be in charge of the reconstruction of Fukushima,? said Tomo Iwabuchi, the JCP candidate. The SDP?s Yoko Endo said: ?Policy similar to that from before the nuclear accident is being promoted. The only way to protect our lives, health and lifestyles is by moving away from nuclear energy and decommissioning reactors.? On July 9, the company said radiation levels in groundwater had soared, suggesting highly toxic materials from the plant were getting closer to the Pacific more than two years after three meltdowns triggered by a massive earthquake and tsunami. I think contamination of the sea is continuing to a greater or lesser extent, Tanaka said. It was contaminated at the time of the accident, but I think it has been continuing for the last two years. Coming up with countermeasures against all possible scenarios is a top priority. In the days after the tsunami, a plume of radiation from explosions fell over wide areas of the land and sea. Toxic materials, such as cesium, were later found to have leaked through channels in the ground on the side of the station by the sea, prompting expressions of concern from South Korea and China. Last month, TEPCO found lower levels of cesium in groundwater flowing into the plant on ground some distance from the sea. The operator has been flushing water over the melted fuel rods in three reactors to keep them cool for more than two years, but contaminated water has been building up at the rate of an Olympic-size swimming pool each week.