Israeli and Palestinian negotiators will resume long-stalled direct peace talks on Monday following six months of frenetic shuttle diplomacy by Secretary of State John Kerry. The State Department announced Sunday that the two sides had accepted invitations from Kerry to come to Washington ?to formally resume direct final status negotiations.? In a statement, department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said the initial meetings would begin Monday evening and continue Tuesday. She said Kerry had called both Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas on Sunday and said they agreed that the talks would ?serve as an opportunity to develop a procedural work plan for how the parties can proceed with the negotiations in the coming months.? US President Barack Obama has welcomed Middle East peace talks due to begin in Washington later, but cautioned that hard choices lie ahead. He spoke after US Secretary of State John Kerry named a former US ambassador to Israel as the lead negotiator. The talks, stalled since 2010, follow six visits to the Middle East in the last five months by Mr Kerry. The breakthrough came as Israel approved the release of more than 100 Palestinian prisoners. The move, which split the Israeli cabinet, is to take place in stages over several months. The initial talks between Israeli and Palestinian representatives are scheduled begin on Monday evening and continue on Tuesday, said the state department. Pope Francis says he won't judge gay priests for their sexual orientation or marginalize gays within the Catholic Church. When I meet a gay person, I have to distinguish between their being gay and being part of a lobby. If they accept the Lord and have goodwill, who am I to judge them? They shouldn't be marginalized, he told reporters Monday in Brazil.? The tendency to homosexuality is not the problem ... they're our brothers, he said. His predecessor, Pope Benedict XVI, signed a document that said men with deep-rooted homosexual tendencies should not be priests. But Pope Francis said God not only forgives those that sin and confess, He forgets. We don't have the right to not forget, he said. Practically since the beginning of the national abortion debate the most fought over question between the pro-abortion and pro-life sides is just when does life begin? In an attempt to avoid the arbitrary, most try to utilize some sort of scientific reasoning to decide when life is life. The pro-life side says life begins as soon as the egg is fertilized while the pro-abortion side often contends that life isn't life until it is self-sustaining, meaning a fetus isn't life until it can survive outside the womb. But here comes extreme left-winger Harris-Perry to offer the most arbitrary criteria of all: whenever anyone?feels?like life begins, then that is life. One of the coldest and most northern cities in the world has witnessed record-breaking temperatures, reaching heights more usually associated with the Mediterranean. The Siberian nickel capital of Norilsk recently saw temperatures hit 32C, beating the record from 1979. According to reports, the previous hottest temperature in the industrial city in the Kransnoyarsk region, which lies above the Arctic Circle, was 31.9C. ?A 21-year-old student, identified only as Polina, told?The Siberian Times: 'I've never worn a bikini before in Norilsk, just to top up my tan.' Forecasters have predicted the hot spell in the city, which is built on permafrost and sees frosty weather 280 days a year, was going to last until yesterday.? According to the National Meteorology Institute, 87 towns in all three of Brazil?s southern states saw snow and freezing rain late Monday and early Tuesday, with temperatures dipping below zero. Some towns registered temperature as low as minus 7 degrees Celsius. It was the first time that it snowed in Florianopolis, capital of the Santa Catarina state, where a homeless person died. The city, together with some others, declared a state of emergency. Curitiba, capital of the state of Parana reported snow after 38 years. Snow is rare in Brazil, falling only in a handful of towns in the mountainous areas. The temperatures, at this time of the year, in southern Brazil usually reach 0C, however -4 Celsius was common in several of the towns where it snowed. Scientists had struggled to find the trigger for so-called Colony Collapse Disorder CCD that has wiped out an estimated 10 million beehives, worth $2 billion, over the past six years. Suspects have included pesticides, disease-bearing parasites and poor nutrition. But in a first-of-its-kind study?published today in the journal PLOS ONE, scientists at the University of Maryland and the US Department of Agriculture have identified a witch?s brew of pesticides and fungicides contaminating pollen that bees collect to feed their hives.?The findings break new ground on why large numbers of bees are dying though they do not identify the specific cause of CCD, where an entire beehive dies at once. In the United States today, there are very few words that provoke as much outrage as the name of Jesus.? It is being banned from graduation ceremonies, chaplains all over America are being forbidden from using His name in their prayers, and many school officials all over the nation have become absolutely fanatical about eliminating every trace of Christian expression from their schools.? One elementary school in North Carolina even ordered a little six-year-old girl to remove the word ?God? from a poem that she had written to honor her grandfathers.? Political correctness is spreading like a cancer in this country, and our ?freedom of religion? is rapidly being transformed into a guarantee of ?freedom from religion? for those that hate the Christian faith. Without a doubt, there is a war on the Christian faith in America today.? It is being waged in classrooms, courtrooms and churches all over the nation. Christians who speak out and stand up for traditional marriage are more likely than ever to be persecuted and even prosecuted for it. That's because of how the majority at the U.S. Supreme Court wrote their June 26 pro-gay marriage rulings. The high court majority attacked the motives of those who came up with the Defense of Marriage Act DOMA in 1996. DOMA enshrined traditional marriage in federal law and prevented federal benefits from going to same-sex couples. The avowed purpose and? practical effect of the law here in question are to impose a disadvantage, a separate status, and so a stigma upon all who enter into same-sex marriages, Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote in the United States v. Windsor ruling. Reyes recently wrote an essay entitled, ?No Atheists in Foxholes: Chaplains Gave All in World War II.? This common saying is attributed to a Catholic priest in World War II, made famous when President Dwight D. Eisenhower said during a 1954 speech: I am delighted that our veterans are sponsoring a movement to increase our awareness of God in our daily lives. In battle, they learned a great truth that there are no atheists in the foxholes. As?reported?by Fox News?s Todd Starnes, when Reyes referenced this famous line in his essay, the Military Religious Freedom Foundation MRFF contacted the base commander, Col. Brian Duffy, demanding he take action on Reyes?s ?anti-secular diatribe.? The GalleryChurch in New York City claims it was booted from its $25,000-per-year rental space in a local restaurant for preaching Christian messages that included sermons against same-sex relations and marriage. The church pastor,?Freddy Wyatt, said in a story reported by The Blaze that ?this particular sermon series struck a nerve in the neighborhood. There was an enormous amount of backlash. ? The restaurant said that if it had only been a couple of phone calls [it received] it would have been one thing ? but it was more than that.?On the church?s online blog, Pastor Wyatt said that services had only been held at the new rental space for a couple of months, before owners of the restaurant that was?hosting?the congregation asked them to leave.? Never before has the world faced such a serious debt crisis.? Yes, in the past there have certainly been nations that have gotten into trouble with debt, but we have never had a situation where virtually all of the major powers around the globe were all drowning in debt at the same time.? And what makes this crisis even more unprecedented is that everyone on the planet is using fiat currency that is backed up by nothing.? It is all just a bunch of paper and data points that people have faith in.? Right now, confidence in this system is being shaken as debt levels skyrocket to extremely dangerous levels.? Many are openly wondering how much longer this can possibly go on. A new global Christianity report predicts that there will be 2.6 billion Christians by 2020, with most of the growth expected in the global South while Christianity continues to decline in the global North.?The study conducted by U.S.-based Center for the Study of Global Christianity at Gordon Conwell Theological Seminary titled,? Christianity In Its Global Context, 1970-2010 ,?offers a timely?overview of the changing context of Christianity since 1970, while looking forward to 2020. The data in the study also details the religious and social contexts of each of the 21 United Nations regions and the changes that will occur within them. Todd Johnson, director of the Center for the Study of Global Christianity, noted that while 2.6 billion is a daunting figure, there has been and will continue to be a decline in the number of Christians in North America and Europe. ? Secularization is strong here, but it's far more pervasive in Europe. The U.S. government has demanded that major Internet companies divulge users' stored passwords, according to two industry sources familiar with these orders, which represent an escalation in surveillance techniques that has not previously been disclosed. If the government is able to determine a person's password, which is typically stored in encrypted form, the credential could be used to log in to an account to peruse confidential correspondence or even impersonate the user. Obtaining it also would aid in deciphering encrypted devices in situations where passwords are reused. I've certainly seen them ask for passwords, said one Internet industry source who spoke on condition of anonymity. We push back. He works at one of the three-letter intelligence agencies and oversees construction of a $1.2 billion surveillance data center in Utah that is 15 times the size of MetLife Stadium, home to the New York Giants and Jets. Long Island native Harvey Davis, a top National Security Agency official, needs that commanding presence. His role is to supervise infrastructure construction worldwide for NSA, which is part of the Defense Department. That involves tending to logistics, military installations, as well as power, space and cooling for all NSA data centers.?In May, crews broke ground on a $792 million computing center at the agency?s headquarters near Baltimore that will complement the Utah site. Together the Utah center and Maryland?s 28-acre computer farm span 228 acres?more than seven times the size of the Pentagon.? Anyone that thinks that the U.S. economy can keep going along like this is absolutely crazy.? We are in the terminal phase of an unprecedented debt spiral which has allowed us to live far, far beyond our means for the last several decades.? Unfortunately, all debt spirals eventually end, and they usually do so in a very disorderly manner.? The chart that you are about to see is one of my favorite economic charts.? It compares the growth of U.S. GDP to the growth of total debt in the United States.? Yes, U.S. GDP has certainly grown at a decent pace over the years, but our total debt has absolutely exploded.? 40 years ago, the total amount of debt in our system government debt + corporate debt + consumer debt, etc. was about 2 trillion dollars.? Today it has grown to?more than 56 trillion dollars.? Our debt has grown at a much, much faster rate than our economy has, and there is no way in the world that we will be able to continue to do that for long.