Policemen clear site of an explosion at Terminal 3 of the Beijing Capital International Airport in Beijing, capital of China, July 20, 2013. Ji Zhongxing, a 34-year-old from Heze City of east China's Shandong Province, set off a home-made explosive device outside the arrivals exit of the Terminal 3 at around 6:24 p.m. Saturday after he was stopped from handing out leaflets to get attention to his complaints, an initial police investigation showed. Ji suffered no life-threatening injuries and no other injuries were caused. The police cordon at the arrivals exit has been removed, and the airport has begun to resume normal order. Xinhua/Zhang Yu This has, however, already been an informal practise for local films for at least the past three years. Massage is China's most ancient medical way.Say again massage, massage, called by Qiao refers to massage the lithe and refreshed the physique laughed, case case, pass by; laughed, play. Case laughed, namely massage , etc., is our country in the long struggle against diseases of the working people summarized and developed.In primitive society, the primitive or fight with the beast in productive labor, there must be some trauma occurred.In pain, they naturally with the hand to touch, with gradually receives the effect; Guangzhou massage ?When a certain parts of the body damage hemorrhage, people instinctively use hand pressure to stop bleeding;When damage local areas uplift, people instinctively through touch, rubbing from swell shrink or disappear, thus relieve the sore.Other people found that the parts with stone chips and scratches can alleviate some of the specific disease, the human instinct to repeated application to illnesses touch by massage technique, after the continuation of time, the technique development and accumulation.Massage in the understanding of the long-term practice process, gradually from the unconscious accidental action evolved into the system of the people free use of treatments.About for thousands of years ago, our ancestors has paved the way for the massage, and gradually form a massage course in our country. Guangzhou escort The airport's press service said 13 people went into the meeting, which started at about 5 p.m. local time 1300 GMT as Snowden proposed and is going on in a room in the transit zone. Journalists could report from the public zone, but not the transit zone, where Snowden is stranded, and the airport would offer necessary assistance, an airport official said. By 4 p.m. local time 1200 GMT , hundreds of reporters had crowded into the airport building and were interviewing lawyers and rights campaigners invited to the meeting. People are allowed to enter this area, and he is allowed to stay there, he told reporters. Many local residents expressed opposition to the project after it was made public by the Heshan government on July 4, said Wu Yuxiong, mayor of Heshan. The Heshan government respects the public's opinion and will not apply for approval for the project, Wu said. The public's opposition was mainly due to safety worries and environmental concerns. The project has met the same fate as paraxylene PX producing projects. Since 2007, the PX projects planned in Xiamen, Dalian, and Kunming were shut down because of public fear for possible environmental pollution. Guangzhou massage We don't need such projects to boost the economy, said a resident surnamed Liu. Liu said he knew little about the nuclear industry but was upset that the planned site was only 30 km away from the city. The planned industrial park, with a designed capacity of 1,000 tonnes of uranium in 2020, will feature facilities for uranium conversion, enrichment and manufacturing of nuclear fuel equipment, involving a total investment of 37 billion yuan 6 bln U.S. dollars . As the first nuclear fuel processing plant to be built in China's southeastern coastal area, it planned to supply nuclear power plants of Dayawan, Taishan and Yangjiang with the uranium it extracted. Most of China's nuclear fuel processing plants are currently based in west China, while China's nuclear power plants are mainly based in the eastern coastal region. The cost and inefficiency of long-distance transportation, increasing demand for nuclear fuel in eastern area, and the need for safer and more reliable supply routes prompted the idea to build the Longwan Industrial Park project, industry insiders said. There is a relatively greater number of nuclear power plants near Heshan, which therefore has more demand for nuclear fuel, said Chi Xuefeng, a nuclear expert. Chi added that the geological conditions in Heshan are also stable, which means losses in possible earthquakes will be light. Even in times of earthquake, malfunctions and emergencies can be solved in the plant, said Zhao. It's time for the nuclear power industry, which the public knew very little in the past, to learn to communicate with residents, said an industry insider who declined to be named. He added that the both the government and the companies should pay full respect to public concern for environment.