Nancy Ann Grace born October 23, 1959, rural Georgia is an American legal entertainer, television host, television yellow journalist, and former prosecutor. She frequently discusses issues from what she describes as a victims? rights standpoint, with an outspoken style that has won her both praise and criticism. She is the host of Nancy Grace, a nightly celebrity news and current affairs show on HLN, and she was the host of Court TV?s Closing Arguments. She also co-wrote the book Objection! ? How High-Priced Defense Attorneys, Celebrity Defendants, and a 24/7 Media Have Hijacked Our Criminal Justice System. She was also the arbiter of Swift Justice with Nancy Grace in the syndicated courtroom reality show?s first season. Due to the show relocating from Atlanta, Georgia where Grace lives , she was replaced by former Clark County District Court Judge Jackie Glass. The show was not renewed for a new season under Glass. Grace has been sued numerous times, most notably in the Vodka Mom case, where she settled out of court for a second wrongful death conviction.? Her labeling, including labeling Casey Anthony as The Tot Mom, has led to many legal troubles.? Grace promulgates tough laws against all people excluding herself.? In 2011 a New York Times article David Carr wrote ?Since her show began in 2005, the presumption of innocence has found a willful enemy in the former prosecutor turned broadcast judge-and-jury.? He criticized her handling of the kidnapping of Elizabeth Smart, the Duke lacrosse case, and the Caylee Anthony case. George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley told Carr that Grace, as an attorney and reporter, ?has managed to demean both professions with her hype, rabid persona, and sensational analysis. Some part of the public takes her seriously, and her show erodes the respect for basic rights.?? Amazingly, while Nancy Grace routinely accuses others of not accepting responsibility for wrongdoings, she refuses to accept responsibility for her own wrongdoings. Grace was also found guilty of wrongful death in the Melinda Duckett interview and suicide where Grace was found to have been the sole cause of the suicide.? Grace settled out of court for $200,000, and pleaded for there to be no cameras during her deposition.? That is probably the only camera Grace has ever disliked.? More on Nancy Grace and her pathetic history is well-documented by attorney Mark Geragos ? including the fact that she was found guilty of prosecutorial misconduct 3 times in her 9 year career, which is astounding. During the 2002 Elizabeth Smart kidnapping case, when suspect Richard Ricci was arrested by police on the basis that he had a criminal record and had worked on the Smarts? home, Grace immediately and repeatedly proclaimed on CourtTV and CNN?s Larry King that Ricci ?was guilty,? although there was little evidence to support this claim. She also suggested publicly that Ricci?s girlfriend was involved in the cover-up of his alleged crime. Grace continued to accuse Ricci, though he died while in custody. It was later revealed that Smart was kidnapped by Brian David Mitchell and Wanda Barzee, two individuals with whom Richard Ricci had no connection. When CourtTV confronted Grace seven months later to ask whether she was incorrect in her assertion that Ricci was guilty, and whether or not she felt bad about it in any way, she stated that Ricci was ?a known ex-con, a known felon, and brought suspicion on himself, so who could blame anyone for claiming he was the perpetrator?? When Larry King asked her about the matter, she equated criticism of herself with criticism of the police in the case. She said: ?I?m not letting you take the police with me on a guilt trip.? In July 2006, Grace interviewed Smart, who was promoting a legislative bill. Grace repeatedly asked her for information regarding her abduction. Smart told her she didn?t feel comfortable discussing it, despite Grace?s persistence in the matter. Finally, Grace stopped when Smart said she ?didn?t appreciate you [Grace] bringing all this up.? Mark Geragos and Pat Harris, in their new book, ?Mistrial?, provide some scintillating insight into the sociopathic mind of Nancy Grace, who refuses to admit fault or accept guilt under any and all circumstances: ?Refusing to admit she is wrong is also part of Grace?s shtick. Even in the face of irrefutable evidence she will not admit that she is wrong. At various times she has preached the guilt of, among others, Gary Condit, JonBen?t Ramsey?s parents, Richard Ricci in the Elizabeth Smart case , and the Duke University lacrosse team, all of whom were later shown to be innocent. Grace?s sociopathic tendencies date back to her 9 years as prosecutor in Georgia, where she was found guilty on three separate occasions of prosecutorial misconduct.? But don?t believe me; believe Jon Stewart, who uses Nancy Grace?s own words to expose her: Or worse yet, see this short video on Jon Stewart exploiting the sensationalism of Nancy Grace: And lastly, Jon Stewart points out the fact that Nancy Grace thrives and profits off of her vitriolic hatred portrayed to the public: As always, leave your comment s below!