rohit57 Some people?make it sound that he got out of his truck after he had been instructed not to do so but he was told, or advised, whatever, not to follow after he had already left the vehicle, so at that time he stopped at the cut through I believe and Rachel said that Martin had kept moving presumably towards where he was staying so in a very short while there should have been about a 60 or 70 yard separation between them, so if Zimmerman stayed about where he was while talking on the phone and telling them to still send the police, and it doesn't make any sense that someone would commit a crime against another person when they know the cops are on the way, I can only conclude that Martin doubled back. Many have pointed this out but it's not discussed, but clearly Juror 37 understood this and understood that it was Martin then who turned it into a violent interaction. His temper got the better of his and he lost his life. This happens frequently so lets discuss this with out sons to control their tempers . Also discuss that the news channels frequently distort things as they did in this case. sandrafalls If something like what happened to Treyvon were to happen to me please save yourselves the time, the embarrassment, the humiliation, and the drama. I, no longer want the Just Us Department to intervene on my behalf. Laws were not made for anyone other than African Americans back in Slavery Days to tell us what we could not do and if we did what would happen to you that is it. I did not hear anyone say let us come up with something to change what is going on in Florida and around this country. I hear people there will never see the light of day for lesser crimes. Nonetheless, to save me from being killed and having a knife plunged in my back as well, do not answer any questions, skip all the details, no need to collect evidence none of the sort just send them away and certainly do not go to court for me because I am fine with that. Please tell them ?no thank you? because if I am murdered I will not know anyway. I do not need this kind of Just Us. No, it will not make me less important it simply means I will not be treating as such either. Lay me down to rest with some kind of integrity I would prefer it that way. The Treyvon Martin's case was handled with no tact and very unprofessional. Jokes were being told the murderer was laughing.? Zimmerman?s Attorneys got a big kick out of defending that murdered and it showed before, during and after Treyvon?s court proceedings while the fact still remains and Treyvon?s case is still unresolved. I do not need to be murdered twice and you certainly do not need to be stroked before a knife goes into your backs as well. Matters at hand we need to come up with a way not to be duped anymore in the future and this would be the best way for me. If I so happen to be murdered the way Treyvon and all the rest of the African Americans who were murdered in this country, so that my family does not fall for Just Us is being served for me, please family tell the Just Us Department ?no thank you and have a nice day? we?re fine because I will not know the outcome anyway. I thought what the Just Us Department did to the Martin Family was absurd. This has been a reoccurring problem forever to long so please save me the humiliation.? I am sorry for the Martin family and their lost I know you were hoping to get some relief for your son Treyvon God Rest His Soul and I was foolish enough to believe in the 21st Century that this time he would. bobw11 Jewish people, some 3000 years or so after being freed from slavery in Egypt, still celebrate this liberation. The celebration is called the Passover. Do we think blacks, freed from slavery in 1866 and fighting their own insecurity and majority culture for some decades after that, will outgrow this slavery issue in a few hundred years? No, they won't. As Henry Clay argued, blacks need to be repatriated to Africa, or at least as many was want to need to be repatriated. Our govt should agree to this,and pay to have this done, in exchange for an end to aff action, set asides, etc. Maybe, just maybe, then, we can begin to clear this hurdle.... rohit57 Americans are not born with the racial profile of black people being more likely to commit crimes. This is a profile that people create in their minds over time due to their experiences, and, simply, the facts. If we look at the number of homicides committed in the United States between 1974 and 2004, 52% of offenders were black and 46% were white. Seems pretty equal, right? The kicker is that blacks made up only 12% of the total population during this time period, while whites made up 80%. This shows that statistically, your average black person was much more likely to commit a homicide than your average white person. This might be uncomfortable to hear, but facts are facts. In addition, it's also more likely that a black man would commit a homicide than a black woman. The facts tell us this, too. Over time, our brains gather this information and form a judgment based on fact - black people are more likely to be murderers. Does this mean that every black man is going to commit homicide? Of course not. But it is a rational judgment, based on facts, that helps us make sense of our world. But it's not fair! Not everybody in a certain group falls into these racial stereotypes! That is a true statement. However, just because not everybody falls into these profiles does not mean that the profiles themselves are useless. At this point in history, they are accurate. This logic would be laughable if it weren't so blatantly racist and ignorant.? The kicker isn't that Black people make up 13% of the population.? The kicker is that Black people and other people of color are harrassed by the police more often, pulled over more often, arrested more often, and prosecuted more often than Whites.? And when we finally get to actual sentencing, you guessed it, even when Black and White people commit the same crime, Black people receive harsher sentences than their White counterparts.? Your argument is flawed because you're saying, Since more Black people are profiled by the criminal in justice system, that proves that they are criminals. ? You put your ignorance on display when you write that people magically inherit the belief that Black people are more likely to commit crimes based on their experiences, and, simply, the facts. ? This is a racist stereotype based on selectively interpreting the information.?? According to Hartney & Vuong in their 2009 report entitled, Created Equal', nearly 1.1 million adults were convicted of a felony in state courts in 2004. About the same percentage of Whites 17% and African Americans 18% were convicted of violent crimes. A somewhat higher percentage of Whites 31% than African Americans 26% were convicted of property crimes, while a higher percentage of African Americans 41% than Whites 30% were convicted of drug offenses. Among those convicted of a felony, African Americans were more often sentenced to prison and had longer sentence lengths than Whites.3 Overall, 66% of Whites versus 71% of African Americans were sentenced to incarceration. For those convicted of violent offenses, 80% of African Americans versus 75% of Whites were sentenced to incarceration; for drug offenses, 70% of African Americans versus 63% of Whites were sentenced to incarceration. Overall and for each offense type, except weapons, African Americans were sentenced to probation, the more lenient disposition, less often than Whites. Whether incarcerated or placed on probation, Whites had an average sentence length of 37 months compared to 40 months for African Americans. The differences were most pronounced with regard to state prison sentences for violent crimes, where African American sentences averaged over a year longer than Whites?108 months versus 95 months.? Finally, you write, If we want the stereotype to change - one thing needs to happen. The people in those groups need to stop matching the stereotype.?? This makes absolutely no sense.? Not all Black people are criminals.? If you choose to believe this stereotype, YOU are the individual with a flawed worldview. ? Therefore, it is YOU and people like you who need to change.? White people also commit crimes, as do members of all other ethnic groups.? Historically, Europeans / European Americans have engaged in despicable, disgusting, and depraved behaviors.? But since it is important to treat people with equity and fairness, it would not be right to generalize the actions of some - even though this behavior was widespread - to the entire ethnic group.? Your suggestion that Black people should stop matching the stereotypes about them is absurd.? Some people engage in criminal activities, many do not.? Those who do not, by definition, already don't fit the stereotype.? Each individual is responsible for his/her own thoughts, words and deeds.? If you choose to hold and espouse racist beliefs and attitudes, you own the repercussions of that.? You also own the work of disabusing YOURSELF of these racist notions, so don't put that responsibility on Black people. ? Even if most black people are law abiding, it does make sense for the cops to keep an eye on young black men who commit a lot of crimes. At the same time, since most black people are innocent, the cops should remain polite and start with the assumption that they are talking to a reasonable person. With a different language, Zimmerman would have saved his nose and his scalp and Martin would have saved his life. @rohit57?You make absolutely no sense. ?And it's obvious you didn't pay much attention to testimony during the case. ?It is only perfectly in order for cops to question people if there is probable cause, which is outlined in the constitution of the USA. ?A neighborhood watch person doesn't have that authority, even if they are captain . ?No doubt TM punched GZ, but the question is why. ?And testimony by Rachel Jenteal suggested why he did. ?TM told Jenteal while they were on the phone that he was being followed and that he thought GZ was creepy & maybe a child molester . ?When GZ approached TM, TM asked GZ why he was following him & then Jeanteal, who was still on the phone with TM, heard TM saying get off get off . ?That would suggest GZ made some type of physical contact which gave TM the legal right to defend himself from what would be perceived as a reasonable threat. ?A stranger who you perceive to be creepy or a child molester follows you and never identifies themselves when they approach you & they then make or attempt to make some type of physical contact with you warrants self defense. The cops could grant that the vast majority of black people do not commit crimes and they are in fact likely to be the victims.? So a copy MAY question a black male, but he must do so politely, and not hurt his pride.