Trayvon Martin - The New York Times Sections Home Search Skip to content Times Topics |Trayvon Martin Case George Zimmerman Search Log In Settings Close search search sponsored by Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Home Page Home Page World U.S. Politics New York Business Business Opinion Opinion Technology Science Health Sports Sports Arts Arts Fashion & Style Fashion & Style Food Food Home & Garden Travel Magazine Real Estate Obituaries Video The Upshot More Africa Americas Asia Pacific Europe Middle East At War India Ink Sinosphere Education First Draft Elections City Room ArtsBeat Events DealBook Economy Energy Markets Media Small Business Your Money DealBook Economy Energy Markets Media Small Business Your Money Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Cartoons Op-Ed Columnists Editorials Contributing Writers Op-Ed Contributors Opinionator Letters Sunday Review Taking Note Room for Debate Public Editor Cartoons Bits Personal Tech Environment Space & Cosmos Well Health Guide Fitness & Nutrition Money & Policy The New Old Age Views Baseball Basketball: College Basketball: N.B.A. Football: College Football: N.F.L. Golf Hockey Soccer Tennis Baseball Basketball: College Basketball: N.B.A. Football: College Football: N.F.L. Golf Hockey Soccer Tennis Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video Games Art & Design ArtsBeat Books Dance Movies Music N.Y.C. Events Guide Television Theater Video Games T Magazine Motherlode On the Runway Weddings T Magazine Motherlode On the Runway Weddings Cooking Restaurant Search Cooking Restaurant Search Commercial Real Estate Great Homes & Destinations My Real Estate U.S. & Politics International New York Opinion Times Documentaries Business Technology Culture Style Health Food Travel Sports Real Estate Science Crossword Times Premier Today's Paper Automobiles Corrections Multimedia Photography Classifieds Tools & Services Jobs Times Topics Blogs NYT Store Times Journeys Subscribe Manage Account Charles M. Blow David Brooks Frank Bruni Roger Cohen Gail Collins Ross Douthat Maureen Dowd Thomas L. Friedman Nicholas Kristof Paul Krugman Joe Nocera Charles M. Blow David Brooks Frank Bruni Roger Cohen Gail Collins Ross Douthat Maureen Dowd Thomas L. Friedman Nicholas Kristof Paul Krugman Joe Nocera Trayvon Martin Case George Zimmerman Family/Orlando Sentinel, via Associated Press News about Trayvon Martin Case George Zimmerman , including commentary and archival articles published in The New York Times. 	 Chronology of Coverage 	 	 Dec. 14, 2013 	 Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, parents of Trayvon Martin, meet with publishers to discuss a book they intend to write about their son and his fatal shooting.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Nov. 7, 2013 	 Editorial notes community of Sanford, Fla, where Trayvon Martin was shot to death in 2012, is wisely changing course and banning civilians from packing firearms on citizen patrols; contends while change comes too late to save Martin's life, community will be safer.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Aug. 28, 2013 	 Lawyer for George Zimmerman, who was acquitted of murder in shooting of Trayvon Martin, plans to ask State of Florida to pay as much as $300,000 of his client's nonlawyer legal bills.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Aug. 12, 2013 	 Group formed after death of Trayvon Martin remains ensconced at Old Capitol building in Tallahassee, Fla, demanding changes to Stand Your Ground provision of state's self-defense laws; group, largely composed of students, has vowed not to leave until special legislative session is called, which is a long shot considering strong public and political support for law.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 27, 2013 	 Sybrina Fulton, mother of slain Florida teenager Trayvon Martin, appeals to gathering of National Urban League in Philadelphia to fight Stand Your Ground self-defense laws and prevent another death like her son's.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 26, 2013 	 Juror from George Zimmerman trial tells ABC News that she initially wanted to convict Zimmerman, but after being faced with Florida's self-defense laws, was compelled to acquit him; also says that freeing Zimmerman, who she believes got away with murder in shooting death of Trayvon Martin, has been heartbreaking for her.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 25, 2013 	 Tracy Martin, father of slain Florida teenager Trayvon Martin, addresses Black Caucus in Congress, urging more focus on issues that disproportionately affect black men, including profiling and unemployment.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 21, 2013 	 Thousands of demonstrators gather in dozens of cities to commemorate Trayvon Martin, unarmed black teenager shot to death in a confrontation with neighborhood watch volunteer George Zimmerman, and to add their voices to a debate on race that his death has set off.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 20, 2013 	 Pres Obama reads unusually personal statement offering his own reflections on acquittal of George Zimmerman in shooting death of Trayvon Martin and why the case has caused such pain among African-Americans; Obama's remarks are his most extensive on race since 2008.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 20, 2013 	 Pres Obama's remarks after George Zimmerman's acquittal stir immediate and emotional reactions nationwide; many express appreciation that Obama ventured beyond debate over Stand Your Ground laws to broach subjects like high crime rate among young black men, and profiling and fear many black men say they face; detractors express skepticism about Obama's motives.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 20, 2013 	 Editorial praises Pres Obama for his powerful statement on racial divisions and tensions in America by someone who has endured them; welcomes Obama's effort to help white Americans understand African-American anger following acquittal of George Zimmerman in shooting of Trayvon Martin.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 20, 2013 	 Charles M Blow Op-Ed column holds that Pres Obama's comments on racial tension and the Trayvon Martin case gave voice to pain and frustration experienced by African-Americans nationwide; holds that by describing his own experience with racism, Obama lent authority to fact that bias and violence are part of the lives of every black man in America.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 18, 2013 	 Acquittal of George Zimmerman in fatal shooting of Trayvon Martin has spurred black parents to have raw and personal discussions of sad pragmatism with their children, particularly sons.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 17, 2013 	 Los Angeles police prepare for another night of protests in reaction to George Zimmerman's acquittal in shooting death of Trayvon Martin; community activists call for calm after previous demonstration turned violent.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 16, 2013 	 Residents of Sanford, Fla, refrain from violence in days after George Zimmerman's acquittal in shooting death of Trayvon Martin; many are angry about the verdict, but ready to move on.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 16, 2013 	 Anonymous juror in George Zimmerman trial is first to shed light on not guilty verdict.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 16, 2013 	 Op-Ed article by Prof Ekow N Yankah argues that not guilty verdict in trial of George Zimmerman is frustrating, predictable, and a strong reminder of how justice system continues to reinforce nation's legacy of racism; imagines changes in jurisprudence that could meaningfully address racial bias.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 15, 2013 	 Acquittal of George Zimmerman in death of Trayvon Martin reverberates in street protests across country, renewing debate about race, crime and American justice system; lawmakers, clergy members and demonstrators cite verdict as evidence of persistent racism that continues to afflict nation five years after election of its first African-American president.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 15, 2013 	 News analysis; George Zimmerman, found not guilty in death of Trayvon Martin, had powerful advantage of Florida's self-defense laws on his side; Zimmerman was also aided by spotty police investigation and proprietorial missteps.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 15, 2013 	 Justice Dept says it is restarting its investigation into 2012 shooting death of Trayvon Martin to consider possible hate crime charges against George Zimmerman, who was found not guilty of murder.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 15, 2013 	 Editorial contends case of George Zimmerman, who was acquitted of all charges in killing of Trayvon Martin, is a sad commentary on the state of race relations and battle over gun rights in America today.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 14, 2013 	 George Zimmerman is found not guilty of second-degree murder in fatal shooting of unarmed teen Trayvon Martin; is also acquitted of manslaughter in racially charged trial that has ignited national debate on racial profiling and civil rights; six-woman jury accepts self-defense as justification for Zimmerman's action.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 13, 2013 	 Jurors in murder trial of George Zimmerman for death of Trayvon Martin in Sanford, Fla, begin deliberations.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 13, 2013 	 Charles M Blow Op-Ed column describes national atmosphere of unresolved sadness as jury deliberates in murder trial of George Zimmerman; contends whatever the outcome, verdict must be respected, though it will do nothing to ease tragic loss.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 12, 2013 	 Bernie de la Rionda, chief prosecutor in the second-degree murder trial of George Zimmerman, focuses in his closing argument on what he contends are inconsistencies in Zimmerman's statements; Judge Debra S Nelson says jury can also consider manslaughter as lesser charge in shooting death of Trayvon Martin.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 11, 2013 	 Defense in George Zimmerman trial rests its case after days spent walking the jury through the foundation of his self-defense claim; Zimmerman did not take the witness stand, signal that his lawyers are confident that prosecutors have not overcome reasonable doubt in murder case of Trayvon Martin.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 10, 2013 	 Forensic pathologist Dr Vincent Di Maio testifies that Trayvon Martin's injuries suggest he was on top of and leaning over George Zimmerman when Zimmerman fired his gun in the fatal encounter.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 9, 2013 	 Defense?s witnesses in third week of George Zimmerman murder trial include Trayvon Martin?s father, and a close friend of Zimmerman.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 8, 2013 	 Simmering issue of race has gone largely unmentioned in murder trial of George Zimmerman, with judge having ruled that statements about race would be sharply limited, and that term 'racial profiling' would not be allowed; African-American observers in particular see fatal shooting of Trayvon Martin as continuation of long history of racial injustice.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 6, 2013 	 Mothers of both George Zimmerman and Trayvon Martin testify in Zimmerman's murder trial, each saying that voice calling for help on audio recording of 911 call was that of her son.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 4, 2013 	 Prosecutors in murder trial of George Zimmerman contrast testimony with his contention in an interview that he had never heard of Florida's Stand Your Ground self-defense law.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 3, 2013 	 Prosecutors in second-degree murder trial of George Zimmerman scramble to undo damage to their case by one of their leading witnesses, Sanford police officer Chris Serino, who testified under cross-examination that Zimmerman seemed to be telling the truth when he said he had fired his gun at Trayvon Martin in self-defense.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 2, 2013 	 Jury in trial of George Zimmerman hears taped police interviews with Zimmerman giving his version of events on night he fatally shot Trayvon Martin.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jul. 1, 2013 	 Legal analysts say that, as trial of George Zimmerman enters its second week, prosecutors appear to be struggling to meet burden of proving him guilty of second-degree murder of Trayvon Martin; say witnesses for prosecution have bolstered Zimmerman's argument of self-defense.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 29, 2013 	 John Good, prosecution witness who saw portions of altercation between George Zimmerman and Trayvon Martin, takes stand in Zimmerman's second-degree murder trial; bolsters defense's contention that Zimmerman was on the ground being beaten by Martin when the fatal shot was fired.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 29, 2013 	 Charles M Blow Op-Ed column poses difficult questions of causation and intent related to first week of testimony in murder trial of George Zimmerman; holds despite legal complexities of case, it should not be forgotten that Trayvon Martin was doing nothing wrong in period leading up to his death.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 28, 2013 	 Rachel Jeantel, young woman who spoke to Trayvon Martin moments before his death, comes under bruising cross-examination again as defense lawyers for George Zimmerman raise questions about accuracy of her story and setting in which she was first interviewed by chief prosecutor in the case.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 27, 2013 	 Rachel Jeantel, one of prosecution's star witnesses in murder trial of George Zimmerman, testifies about her phone conversation with Trayvon Martin minutes before his death.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 26, 2013 	 First witnesses offer testimony in murder trial of George Zimmerman, Florida man charged with second-degree murder of unarmed teen Trayvon Martin.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 25, 2013 	 Murder trial of George Zimmerman begins in Sanford, Fla, with defense choosing evidence over passion in its opening statement and prosecution playing heavily on emotion surrounding death of Trayvon Martin.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 23, 2013 	 Judge Debra S Nelson releases order excluding testimony from two audio experts for the prosecution about audio recording of a 911 call in George Zimmerman's second-degree-murder trial.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 21, 2013 	 Jury of six women will decide whether George Zimmerman was acting in self-defense when he fatally shot Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teenager, in 2012 altercation at townhouse community in Sanford, Fla; legal experts say jury of all women, all but one of whom is white, is unusual.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 20, 2013 	 Jury is close to being seated in case of George Zimmerman, volunteer neighborhood watchman charged with murdering unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin in Sanford, Fla.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 14, 2013 	 Judge Debra S Nelson rules that jurors in Florida murder trial of George Zimmerman will be sequestered; he is charged with shooting death of Trayvon Martin.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 12, 2013 	 Lawyers try to discern bias as questioning of prospective jurors in George Zimmerman's murder trial resumes.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 11, 2013 	 First round of jury selection in murder trial of George Zimmerman begins, as lawyers from both sides seek to gauge prospective jurors' exposure to widespread coverage of case and their sensitivity to racial furor it unleashed; Zimmerman is charged with shooting death of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin in Florida.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 Jun. 9, 2013 	 Ongoing process of jury selection in trial of George Zimmerman, volunteer neighborhood watchman charged in shooting death of black teenager Trayvon Martin, raises complex questions of what defines murder and self-defense; questions are almost unchanged from when shooting occurred.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 May. 29, 2013 	 Circuit Judge Debra Steinberg Nelson rules that defense lawyers for George Zimmerman, who is charged in killing of Trayvon Martin, will be barred from mentioning Martin's marijuana use, history of fights or high school suspension during opening statements of trial.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 May. 24, 2013 	 Lawyer for George Zimmerman, who faces murder charge in shooting death of teenager Trayvon Martin, releases new evidence that depicts Martin as troubled at school and enamored of a 'gangsta' culture; material is intended to draw fuller, perhaps more negative portrait of Martin's character.	 MORE 	 	 	 	 	 May. 1, 2013 	 George Zimmerman, who faces murder charge in shooting death of teenager Trayvon Martin, officially waves his right to pretrial 'Stand Your Ground' immunity hearing, choosing instead to lay out his self-defense case before Florida jury.	 MORE 	 	 	 Show MoreLoading 	 There are no additional abstracts to display. 	 	 	Highlights From the Archives 		 	 	 	 Trayvon Martin Case Shadowed by Series of Police Missteps 	 	 	 By SERGE F. KOVALESKI 	 	 Mistakes by the Police Department in Sanford, Fla., and circumstances beyond its control, could make it more difficult to pursue a case against George Zimmerman. 	 	 	 	 	 May 17, 2012 us News 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Race, Tragedy and Outrage Collide After a Shot in Florida 	 	 	 By DAN BARRY, SERGE F. KOVALESKI, CAMPBELL ROBERTSON and LIZETTE ALVAREZ 	 	 The fatal encounter between Trayvon Martin and George Zimmerman has polarized the nation, shining an unforgiving light on issues such as race relations and gun control. 	 	 	 	 	 April 2, 2012 us News 	 		 	 	 ARTICLES ABOUT TRAYVON MARTIN 	 	 Newest First | Oldest First 	 		 Page: 		 		 ? prev 		 next ? 		 	 	 	 	 		 		 		 		 Search 257 Articles: 		 		 		 Search 		 		 		 Go 		 		 		 		 		 			 			 	 			 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 George Zimmerman Is Charged With Assault in Florida By EMMA G. FITZSIMMONS 	 Mr. Zimmerman, who was acquitted in the Trayvon Martin killing two years ago, was charged with throwing a wine bottle at a woman at his home this week, according to the police in Lake Mary, Fla. 	 January 11, 2015, Sunday 	 	MORE ON TRAYVON MARTIN AND: 	 		Zimmerman, George 		 			, 		 	 		Domestic Violence 		 			, 		 	 		Florida 		 			, 		 	 		Martin, Trayvon 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 Millennials and the Age of Tumblr Activism By VALERIYA SAFRONOVA 	 A generation called apathetic is speaking out on Tumblr. 	 December 21, 2014, Sunday 	 	MORE ON TRAYVON MARTIN AND: 	 		Tumblr 		 			, 		 	 		Brown, Michael 1996-2014 		 			, 		 	 		Garner, Eric 		 			, 		 	 		Social Media 		 			, 		 	 		Blogs and Blogging Internet 		 			, 		 	 		Martin, Trayvon 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 Covering the Ferguson Verdict Protests, With Kids in the Minivan By JULIE SCHWIETERT COLLAZO 	 My 5-year-old has become a veteran of the protests I often cover as a journalist, so much so that she has her own explanations. ?Did they shoot someone again, Mama?? she asked. ?His parents must be very, very sad. It?s like that boy in the... 	 November 25, 2014, Tuesday 	 	MORE ON TRAYVON MARTIN AND: 	 		Brown, Michael 1996-2014 		 			, 		 	 		Martin, Trayvon 		 			, 		 	 		Ferguson Mo 		 			, 		 	 		Mexico 		 			, 		 	 		Union Square Manhattan, NY 		 			, 		 	 		Demonstrations, Protests and Riots 		 			, 		 	 		Parenting 		 			, 		 	 		Police Brutality, Misconduct and Shootings 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 Why SketchFactor Feels, Well? By ANNA ALTMAN 	 When do safety apps work, and when do they lend themselves to becoming tools for racial profiling? 	 August 14, 2014, Thursday 	 	MORE ON TRAYVON MARTIN AND: 	 		Brown, Michael 1996-2014 		 			, 		 	 		de Blasio, Bill 		 			, 		 	 		Martin, Trayvon 		 			, 		 	 		Upper West Side Manhattan, NY 		 			, 		 	 		West Village Manhattan, NY 		 			, 		 	 		New York Civil Liberties Union 		 			, 		 	 		Accidents and Safety 		 			, 		 	 		Blacks 		 			, 		 	 		Police 		 			, 		 	 		Police Brutality, Misconduct and Shootings 		 			, 		 	 		Racial Profiling 		 			, 		 	 		Traffic Accidents and Safety 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 Mavericks? Owner Offers Apology By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 	 The Dallas Mavericks? owner, Mark Cuban, apologized to Trayvon Martin?s family over his choice of words in a videotaped interview in which he addressed bigotry and prejudice. 	 May 23, 2014, Friday 	 	MORE ON TRAYVON MARTIN AND: 	 		Martin, Trayvon 		 			, 		 	 		Cuban, Mark 		 			, 		 	 		Discrimination 		 			, 		 	 		Basketball 		 			, 		 	 		Dallas Mavericks 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 Trayvon Martin?s Parents Are Planning a Book By JULIE BOSMAN 	 Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin met with publishers this week to discuss a book they intend to write about their son and his fatal shooting. 	 December 14, 2013, Saturday 	 	MORE ON TRAYVON MARTIN AND: 	 		Books and Literature 		 			, 		 	 		Martin, Trayvon 		 			, 		 	 		Martin, Tracy 		 			, 		 	 		Fulton, Sybrina 		 			, 		 	 		Book Trade and Publishing 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 Conservatives and Structural Racism By ROSS DOUTHAT 	 Can the right offer anything on policy that addresses the residue of slavery and segregation in our national life? 	 December 5, 2013, Thursday 	 	MORE ON TRAYVON MARTIN AND: 	 		Paul, Rand 		 			, 		 	 		Zimmerman, George 		 			, 		 	 		Martin, Trayvon 		 			, 		 	 		United States 		 			, 		 	 		Democratic Party 		 			, 		 	 		Republican Party 		 			, 		 	 		Discrimination 		 			, 		 	 		Conservatism US Politics 		 			, 		 	 		Labor and Jobs 		 			, 		 	 		Immigration and Emigration 		 			, 		 	 		Blacks 		 			, 		 	 		Race and Ethnicity 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 Work Inspired by Trayvon Martin Case to Have Premiere on Thursday By FELICIA R. LEE 	 ?Facing Our Truth: 10-Minute Plays on Trayvon, Race and Privilege? will be performed at the City University of New York Graduate Center. 	 December 4, 2013, Wednesday 	 	MORE ON TRAYVON MARTIN AND: 	 		Zimmerman, George 		 			, 		 	 		Martin, Trayvon 		 			, 		 	 		Sanford Fla 		 			, 		 	 		City University of New York 		 			, 		 	 		Race and Ethnicity 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 More ?Stand Your Ground? Fantasizing By THE EDITORIAL BOARD 	 Ohio moves one step closer to enacting a dangerous gun law. 	 November 24, 2013, Sunday 	 	MORE ON TRAYVON MARTIN AND: 	 		Law and Legislation 		 			, 		 	 		Ohio 		 			, 		 	 		Firearms 		 			, 		 	 		Martin, Trayvon 		 			, 		 	 		Urban Areas 		 			, 		 	 		Editorials 		 			, 		 	 		State Legislatures 		 			, 		 	 		Gun Control 		 			, 		 	 		Self-Defense 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 Woman Says Zimmerman Choked Her During Fight By ALAN BLINDER 	 George Zimmerman?s girlfriend did not immediately report the attack, but disclosed it during an inquiry into a confrontation that led to Mr. Zimmerman?s arrest on Monday in Apopka, Fla. 	 November 20, 2013, Wednesday 	 	MORE ON TRAYVON MARTIN AND: 	 		Martin, Trayvon 		 			, 		 	 		Florida 		 			, 		 	 		Scheibe, Samantha 		 			, 		 	 		Zimmerman, George 		 			, 		 	 		Domestic Violence 		 			, 		 	 		Apopka Fla 		 	 Advertising 	 	 Follow the latest Trayvon Martin updates on The Times?s news blog. More posts about Trayvon Martin? Trayvon Martin Navigator A list of resources from around the Web about Trayvon Martin as selected by researchers and editors of The New York Times. Audio: George Zimmerman 911 Call Orlando Sentinel Video: George Zimmerman at Police Station After Shooting MSNBC 	 	 	 Multimedia video Zimmerman Interview With Detective A day after George Zimmerman killed Trayvon Martin, he was interviewed on video by a detective. video Zimmerman Re-enactment The day after George Zimmerman killed Trayvon Martin, police accompanied Mr. Zimmerman to the scene. 		 	 Multimedia 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 video 				 	 	 	 Key Hashtags in ?Black Twitter? Activism 	 The speed with which the shooting of Michael Brown resonated on social media helped propel and transform a local shooting into a national cause, Tanzina Vega reports. 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 interactive 				 	 	 	 Voices for Equality 	 A selection of speeches since Martin Luther King Jr.?s address at the Lincoln Monument on Aug. 28, 1963, that have influenced the perceptions of race in America. 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 video 				 	 	 	 Aug. 24: Trayvon Martin?s Mother Speaks 	 Sybrina Fulton, Trayvon Martin?s mother, spoke to the crowd during the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington. 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 slideshow 				 	 	 	 A Week After Verdict, Throngs Rally for Trayvon Martin 	 Across the nation on Saturday, thousands mourned Mr. Martin and protested the acquittal of his killer, George Zimmerman. 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 video 				 	 	 	 Obama Speaks on the Zimmerman Verdict 	 In surprise remarks at the White House, President Obama said, ?Trayvon Martin could have been me 35 years ago.? 	 	 	 More Multimedia ? 	 Advertising Most Emailed Most Viewed Recommended for you 	 		Rss Feeds On Trayvon Martin Case George Zimmerman 		Subscribe to an RSS feed on this topic. What is RSS? 		 			 				 			 				Trayvon Martin Case George Zimmerman 			 		 	 ? 2015 The New York Times Company Home Search Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions