Egypt in turmoil - Photos - The Big Picture - Boston.com Peaches | In the Valley Below 	Listen Live ? Boston.com Home Today's Globe News Weather Sports Entertainment Business Lifestyle Health Travel Cars Jobs Real Estate RECENT ENTRIES ? Russian cadet training - 04.30 ? Tornadoes kill at least 18 - 04.28 ? Earth Day 2014 - 04.22 ? The Boston Marathon, 2014 - 04.21 On Facebook ??? @big_picture on Twitter ??? On Google+ ??? On App.net ??? Windows 8 app Translate into: Hint: Use 'j' and 'k' keys to move up and down comments 	July 10, 2013 	 	Egypt in turmoil 	Protesters continued to show their support for ousted president Mohammed Morsi today in Cairo as Egypt's military-backed interim President Adli Mansour selected a vice president and prime minister. Massive demonstrations that began over a week ago marking Morsi's first year of power led to fighting between pro- and anti-Morsi forces, and some 50 pro-Morsi Muslim Brotherhood protesters were killed outside Republican Guard headquarters. Gathered here are images from the turmoil in Egypt over the last few weeks. -- Lloyd Young 40 photos total Opponents of Egypt's Islamist President Mohammed Morsi chant slogans during a protest outside the presidential palace, in Cairo, Egypt, on June 30. Thousands of Egyptians demanding the ouster of Morsi are gathering at Cairo's central Tahrir Square and the presidential palace at the start of a day of massive, nationwide protests many fear could turn deadly. The poster with Arabic at left, reads, Leave, huge year strike, 6/30. Khalil Hamra/Associated Press 2 A supporter of Egypt's ousted President Mohammed Morsi near the University of Cairo, in Giza, Egypt, on July 6. The Arabic reads, legitimacy is a red line, and leaves Sisi, Morsi is my president. Security forces boosted positions near a protest camp by supporters of ousted leader Mohammed Morsi as authorities Saturday plotted their next moves after violence claimed dozens of lives across the country and deepened the battle lines in the divided nation. Hassan Ammar/Associated Press # 3 Protesters opposing Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi gather during a demonstration at Tahrir Square in Cairo on June 30. Egyptians poured onto the streets on Sunday, swelling crowds that opposition leaders hope will number into the millions by evening and persuade Islamist President Mohammed Morsi to resign. Mohamed Abd El Ghany/Reuters # 4 Egyptian people watch President Mohammed Morsi on television as he addresses the nation in Cairo on July 2. Morsi told Egyptians that he had been freely elected little more than a year ago and that he intended to continue to carry out his duties despite mass protests demanding his resignation. Khaled Desouki/AFP/Getty Images # 5 Opponents of Egypt's Islamist leader Mohammed Morsi celebrate outside the presidential palace in Cairo, Egypt, on July 3. A statement on the Egyptian president's office's Twitter account has quoted Mohammed Morsi as calling military measures a full coup. The denouncement was posted shortly after the Egyptian military announced it was ousting Morsi, who was Egypt's first freely elected leader but drew ire with his Islamist leanings. The military says it has replaced him with the chief justice of the Supreme constitutional Court, called for early presidential election and suspended the Islamist-backed constitution. Hassan Ammar/Associated Press # 6 Supporters of Egypt's ousted president Mohammed Morsi react after the Minister of Defense's announcement on state television on July 3. The armed forces ousted Egypt's first democratically elected president Wednesday after just a year in power, installing a temporary civilian government, suspending the constitution and calling for new elections. Mohammed Maymooni/El Shorouk Newspaper via Associated Press # 7 Fireworks light the sky as opponents of Egypt's Islamist President Mohammed Morsi celebrate in Tahrir Square in Cairo, Egypt, on July 3. Morsi was removed from office by the military on Wednesday. Amr Nabil/Associated Press # 8 Egyptian people wave the national flag as army helicopters fly above Egypt's landmark Tahrir square on July 4. Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood, from which ousted president Mohammed Morsi hails, denounced a new police state after the arrest of Islamist leaders and the closure of satellite channels. Gianluigi Guercia/AFP/Getty Images # 9 An anti-Morsi protester receives medical attention during clashes with members of the Muslim Brotherhood and supporters of ousted Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi near Maspero, Egypt's state TV and radio station, near Tahrir square in Cairo on July 5. Islamist allies of ousted president Morsi called on people to protest on Friday to express outrage at his overthrow by the army and to reject a planned interim government backed by their liberal opponents. Amr Abdallah Dalsh/Reuters # 10 Supporters and opponents of ousted Egypt's Islamist President Mohammed Morsi clash on the bridge, near Maspero, where Egypt's state tv and radio station is located, in Cairo, Egypt, on July 5. Tens of thousands of Islamists streamed across a Nile River bridge toward Cairo?s Tahrir Square on Friday, threatening a showdown moments after the top leader of the Muslim Brotherhood defiantly spoke before a cheering crowd of supporters, vowing to reinstate ousted President Mohammed Morsi and end military rule. Hassan Ammar/Associated Press # 11 Protesters who are against former Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi throw stones at pro-Morsi supporters near Tahrir Square in Cairo on July 5. Islamist allies of ousted president Morsi called on people to protest on Friday to express outrage at his overthrow by the army and to reject a planned interim government backed by their liberal opponents. Asmaa Waguih/Reuters # 12 Supporters and opponents of Egypt's Islamist President Mohammed Morsi clash near Maspero, where Egypt's state tv and radio station is located, in Cairo, Egypt, on July 5. Tens of thousands of Islamists streamed across a Nile River bridge toward Cairo?s Tahrir Square on Friday, threatening a showdown moments after the top leader of the Muslim Brotherhood defiantly spoke before a cheering crowd of supporters, vowing to reinstate ousted President Mohammed Morsi and end military rule. Hassan Ammar/Associated Press # 13 People carry two injured persons during clashes between supporters and opponents of ousted Egypt's Islamist President Mohammed Morsi in Cairo, Egypt, on July 5. Hassan Ammar/Associated Press # 14 A portrait of deposed Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi is seen on barbed wire outside the Republican Guard headquarters in Cairo on July 6. Egypt counted its dead on Saturday after Islamists enraged by the overthrow of Morsi took to the streets in an explosion of violence against what they denounced as a military coup. Khaled Abdullah/Reuters # 15 An Egyptian opposing President Morsi shows a gun that was allegedly used by Muslim Brotherhood members and seized after storming their headquarters, in the al-Moqattam suburban, Cairo, on July 1. Medics said at least 12 people were killed in the fighting that started June 30 around the Muslim Brotherhood's biggest offices, in the suburban Cairo area of al-Moqattam. Protesters torched the first floor of the building on July 1. Activists said Muslim Brotherhood members inside the building responded with live fire and shotgun rounds. Khaled Elfiqi/European Pressphoto Agency # 16 A supporter of Egypt's ousted President Mohammed Morsi holds a Quran in front of Egyptian soldiers, not pictured, near Cairo University, where protesters have installed their camp in in Giza, southwest of Cairo, Egypt, on July 8. Egyptian soldiers and police opened fire on supporters of the ousted president early Monday in violence that left dozens of people killed, including one officer, outside a military building in Cairo where demonstrators had been holding a sit-in, government officials and witnesses said. Manu Brabo/Associated Press # 17 Supporters of ousted President Mohammed Morsi, seen in poster, protest in Nasr City, Cairo, Egypt, on July 9. After days of deadlock, Egypt's military-backed interim president named a veteran economist as prime minister on Tuesday and appointed pro-democracy leader Mohamed ElBaradei as a vice president, while the army showed its strong hand in shepherding the process, warning political factions against manuevering that impedes the transition. Nasser Shiyoukhi/Associated Press # 18 A protester, with his forehead painted with the colors of the Egyptian flag, sits on sand bags used to secure the entrance of Tahrir square, in Cairo, on July 9. Asmaa Waguih/Reuters # 19 A man with his face painted the colors of the Egyptian flag looks out as thousands of Egyptian protesters celebrate in Tahrir Square as the deadline given by the military to Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi passes on July 3 in Cairo, Egypt. The president gave a defiant speech last night and vowed to stay in power despite the military threats. As unrest spreads throughout the country, at least 23 people were killed in Cairo on Tuesday and over 200 others were injured. It has been reported that the military has taken over the state television. Spencer Platt/Getty Images # 20 A member of the Egyptian military stands at a roadblock in the district of Giza the morning after the first democratically elected President Mohammed Morsi was ousted from power and put under house arrest on July 4 in Cairo, Egypt. Adly Mansour has been sworn in as the interim head of state as unrest continues to spread throughout the country since Sunday there been approximately 50 deaths. Spencer Platt/Getty Images # 21 Supporters of ousted President Mohammed Morsi pray in Nasr City, Cairo, Egypt, on July 9. Arabic reads, No substitute for the legitimacy. After days of deadlock, Egypt's military-backed interim president named a veteran economist as prime minister on Tuesday and appointed pro-democracy leader Mohamed ElBaradei as a vice president, while the army showed its strong hand in shepherding the process, warning political factions against maneuvering that impedes the transition. Hassan Ammar/Associated Press # 22 A pro-democracy protester burns an image of Lieutenant General Abdel Fattah El Sisi, Egypt's Commanding General and Minister of Defense and Military Production, during a demonstration against what they said was a military coup that ousted Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi, in Sanaa on July 8. Mohamed Al-Sayaghi/Reuters # 23 Egyptians wave the national flag on a building rooftop on July 7 as hundreds of thousands flood Egypt's landmark Tahrir square to demonstrate against ousted President Mohammed Morsi and in support of the Egyptian Army in Cairo. Opponents of Egypt's first freely elected leader packed streets across the country in their hundreds of thousands on July 7 to show the world his ouster was not a military coup but the reflection of the people's will. Staged two days after Islamist rallies exploded into bloodshed, the protests came as a coalition that backed the military action to overthrow Morsi reportedly agreed to name a technocrat as premier. Mohamed El-Shahed/AFP/Getty Images # 24 Supporters of ousted President Mohammed Morsi stand guard as they protest near Rabaa Adawiya mosque after Friday prayer, in Cairo, Egypt, on July 5. According to media reports, at least two backers of ousted Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi have been killed in clashes with the army in Cairo. However, a security source was quoted as saying that supporters of Morsi have attempted to storm an army building, but has denied reports that people have died in the clashes. Mohammed Saber/European Pressphoto Agency # 25 A supporter of the ousted Egypt's President Mohammed Morsi with his face covered with the national flag dances during a protest in Nasr City, a suburb of Cairo, Egypt, on July 9. Manu Brabo/Associated Press # 26 Egyptian protesters wave their hands and hold national flags during anti-President Mohammed Morsi demonstration in Tahrir Square, the focal point of Egyptian uprising in Cairo, Egypt, on June 28. Tens of thousands of backers and opponents of Egypt's Islamist president held competing rallies in the capital Friday and new clashes erupted between the two sides in the country?s second largest city, Alexandria, in a prelude to massive nationwide protests planned by the opposition this weekend demanding Mohammed Morsi?s removal. Amr Nabil/Associated Press # 27 Protesters who support former Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi carry an injured man during clashes outside the Republican Guard building in Cairo on July 5. At least three demonstrators were shot dead outside the Republican Guard barracks in Cairo where deposed Islamist President Mohammed Morsi is being held, security sources said. Louafi Larbi/Reuters # 28 A man reacts after seeing the body of a family member, allegedly killed during a shooting at the site of a pro-Morsi sit-in in front of the headquarters of the Egyptian Republican Guard, at the Liltaqmeen al-Sahy Hospital in Cairo's Nasr City district on July 8 in Cairo, Egypt. Egyptian health ministry officials are reporting at least 42 people were killed and more than 300 injured in the incident early on Monday morning, which allegedly occurred as supporters of deposed Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi attending the sit in were performing dawn prayer. The demonstrators were demanding the release of Morsi, who they believe is being held inside the Republican Guard headquarters. Ed Giles/Getty Images # 29 Supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood stand next to the bodies of fellow protesters killed in clashes with Republican Guards forces, at a hospital morgue in Cairo, Egypt, on July 8. Clashes between Islamist protesters and the army in Cairo erupted at dawn killing at least 42 and injuring 322 others, according a health official. Fighting broke out when an armed group attempted to storm the Republican Guards club, where the ousted president Mohamed Morsi is thought to be held by the army. The violence amplifies the conflict between the army and supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood group, who vowed to continue demonstrating until he is restored to power. Mohammed Saber/European Pressphoto Agency # 30 An Egyptian flag stained with blood flutters over members of the Muslim Brotherhood and supporters of deposed Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi as they shout slogans during a protest outside Raba El-Adwyia mosque in Cairo on July 8 following clashes in front of the Republican Guard headquarters. At least 51 people were killed on Monday when demonstrators enraged by the military overthrow of Egypt's elected Islamist president said the army opened fire during morning prayers outside the Cairo barracks where Morsi is believed to be held. Mohamed Abd El Ghany/Reuters # 31 Egyptian supporters of deposed president Mohammed Morsi sit in front of barbed wire fencing that blocks the access to the headquarters of the Republican Guard in Cairo on July 8. Forty-two loyalists of Egypt's ousted president were killed while demonstrating against last week's military coup, triggering an Islamist uprising call and dashing the army's hopes for an interim civilian administration. Mahmud Hams/AFP/Getty Images # 32 A supporter of ousted president Mohammed Morsi kisses a symbolic coffin, one day after fellow protesters were killed in clashes, during a protest outside Rabaa al-Adawiya mosque in Cairo, Egypt, on July 9. Clashes between Islamist protesters and the army in Cairo killed at least 51 and injured 435 others. The Muslim Brotherhood and its allies vowed to continue protests until ousted president Mohammed Morsi is brought back to power. The army forced him from office last week after mass street protests demanded the ouster of Egypt's first democratically elected president after one year in office. Mohammed Saber/European Pressphoto Agency # 33 Ousted President Mohammed Morsi supporters and Muslim Brotherhood members hold a giant portrait of him as they demonstrate against his toppling at Raba al-Adwyia mosque on July 7 in Cairo. Carrying pictures of the deposed president, the Islamists erected barricades and set up checkpoints across the capital, where tens of thousands of them blocked the main road to the international airport. Mahmoud Khaled/AFP/Getty Images # 34 An Egyptian protester flashes v signs for military aircrafts forming a heart shape trails in the sky over Tahrir Square in Cairo, Egypt, on July 5. Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood called for a wave of protests Friday, furious over the military's ouster of its president and arrest of its revered leader and other top figures, underlining the touchy issue of what role the fundamentalist Islamist movement might play in the new regime. Amr Nabil/Associated Press # 35 Supporters of deposed Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi recite prayers outside the Republican Guard headquarters in Cairo on July 6. Egypt counted its dead on Saturday after Islamists enraged by the overthrow of Morsi took to the streets in an explosion of violence against what they denounced as a military coup. Khaled Abdullah/Reuters # 36 Mohamed El-Beltagy, senior Muslim Brotherhood member and supporter of former Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi, gestures at a Republican Guard official in Cairo on July 5. At least 17 people died across Egypt on Friday as Islamists opposed to the overthrow of President Mohammed Morsi took to the streets to vent their fury at what they say was a military coup. Asmaa Waguih/Reuters # 37 Protesters, who are against Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi, wave flags in Tahrir Square in Cairo on July 3. The general command of the Egyptian armed forces is currently holding a crisis meeting, a military source told Reuters on Wednesday. The meeting was being held hours before the expiry of a deadline set by the army for rival politicians to find a solution to the country's political crisis. Suhaib Salem/Reuters # 38 Protesters, opposing Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi, pray during a protest demanding that Morsi resign at Tahrir Square in Cairo on July 1. The headquarters of Egypt's ruling Muslim Brotherhood was overrun by youths who ransacked the building after those inside were evacuated on Monday following a night of violence that killed eight people. Suhaib Salem/Reuters # 39 Protesters against Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi wave national flags in Tahrir Square in Cairo on July 3. The Egyptian president's national security adviser said on Wednesday that a military coup was under way and army and police violence was expected to remove pro-Morsi demonstrators. Mohamed Abd El Ghany/Reuters # 40 Supporters of ousted Egypt's President Mohammed Morsi protest as army soldiers guard the Republican Guard building in Nasr City, in Cairo, Egypt, on July 10. After days of deadlock, Egypt's military-backed interim president named a veteran economist as prime minister on Tuesday and appointed pro-democracy leader Mohamed ElBaradei as a vice president, while the army showed its strong hand in shepherding the process, warning political factions against maneuvering that impedes the transition. Hassan Ammar/Associated Press # More links and information Egypt News ? Revolution and Aftermath - NYTimes.com, 1/19 Egypt - Wikipedia entry Mid-East - bbc.co.uk < Back to front page ? Previous entry Next entry ? 			 ? ARCHIVES CATEGORIES RECENT ENTRIES Russian cadet training - 04.30 Tornadoes kill at least 18 - 04.28 Earth Day 2014 - 04.22 The Boston Marathon, 2014 - 04.21 Week of observances - 04.18 Boston Marathon bombings: One year later - 04.15 Scenes from the 2014 Masters Golf Tournament - 04.11 Home | Today's Globe | News | Business | Sports | Lifestyle | A&E | Things to Do | Travel | Cars | Jobs | Real Estate | Local Search Contact Boston.com | Help | Advertise | Work here | Privacy Policy | Your Ad Choices | 	 Terms of Service | Newsletters | Mobile | RSS feeds | Sitemap Contact The Boston Globe | Subscribe | Manage your subscription | Advertise | Boston Globe Insiders | The Boston Globe Gallery | ? Boston Globe Media Partners, LLC