Morsi vows not to resign as military's deadline arrives - Washington Times Skip to content , ? / High: ? / Low: ? Dow: / NASDAQ: / S&P 500: Store Book Travel Subscribe Classifieds Weekly Ads SearchSearch Keyword: Connect with us: User ProfileManage your profile LoginRegister Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments. Edit Your Profile???? Logout Toggle navigation Home News Politics National World Security Business & Economy D.C. Local Faith & Family Inside Politics Inside the Beltway Inside the Ring Technology Entertainment Inside China Accountability Special Reports Communities Delay's Getting it right Issues, Insights & Istook Phillip's Tea Time Christine O'Donnell Unplugged Rusty Humphries Rebellion Ortel's On the Money Deace's Midwestern Conservative Jeffrey Shapiro's Law & Disorder Obituaries JUST THE HEADLINES Opinion Opinion Main Commentary Editorials Letters David Keene Pruden on Politics Ben Carson Monica Crowley Tammy Bruce Cal Thomas Water Cooler Books Cartoons Communities Delay's Getting it right Issues, Insights & Istook Phillip's Tea Time Christine O'Donnell Unplugged Rusty Humphries Rebellion Ortel's On the Money Deace's Midwestern Conservative Jeffrey Shapiro's Law & Disorder Ernest Istook Tom DeLay Rusty Humphries Christine O'Donnell Goldwater 50 Years Later Sports Sports Main Football Baseball Basketball NCAA Olympics Tennis Golf Hockey Soccer Horse Racing NASCAR & Racing Redskins 2014 Media Media Main Radio Photo Galleries Video TellDC Ask Congress Play Sudoku Crossword Puzzle Market Book a Trip Buy a Home Weekly Ads Find a Doctor Store Classifieds TWT Rewards Advertise With Us Suriname Special Report U.S. & Russia Relations Social Media Connect with us: Widgets , ? / High: ? / Low: ? Dow: / NASDAQ: / S&P 500: Store Book Travel Subscribe Classifieds Weekly Ads SearchSearch Keyword: Preferences User ProfileManage your profile LoginRegister Login or Signup now to share stories and leave comments. Edit Your Profile???? Logout Politics Court upholds Keystone pipeline route thro... Politics Martin O?Malley: ?My feelings ... Politics House passes 40-hour workweek for Obamacar... Politics More free stuff: Obama to propose communit... Politics Scott Walker heading to Iowa Freedom Summi... Politics Scott Brown mocked by @ScottBrownCA: Tweet... Politics Conservatives outnumber other groups, but ... Politics Face-saving concessions could get Obama to... Politics Terrorism insurance bill passes two days a... Politics Obama avoids Phoenix VA hospital, holds ev... Home News World Morsi vows not to resign as military?s deadline arrives By Ashish Kumar Sen - 	 		The Washington Times - 												 													 													Tuesday, July 2, 2013 												 	 Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi and his army generals appeared headed for a showdown Wednesday as they vowed to spill their blood for the country hours before the clock ran out on a military ultimatum Wednesday. The Islamist leader and the opposition were told to defuse a political crisis that has entered its fourth day. Mr. Morsi delivered a defiant late-night address to the nation promising to protect his ?constitutional legitimacy? with his life and refusing to listen to the demands of millions of protesters who are calling for his resignation and new elections. Egypt?s Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, headed by Army Chief Gen. Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, shot back hours later in a Facebook statement titled ?The Final Hours? that it would ?sacrifice even our blood for Egypt and its people, to defend them against any terrorist, radical or fool.? 															 															 																SEE ALSO: Egypt?s military vows fight to death in Facebook posting, ?The Final Hours? 															 															 Gen. al-Sisi, who also serves as defense minister, was meeting with his commanders on Wednesday. The military on Monday set a 48-hour deadline for the resolution of the crisis, saying it would be forced to intervene and present its own roadmap. The military deadline runs out around 4 p.m. [10 a.m. EDT] on Wednesday. 															 															 																SEE ALSO: U.S. denies taking sides in Egyptian politics amid Morsi protests 															 															 Under the military?s plan leaked on Tuesday in an apparent attempt to quell concerns that the generals were planning a coupe, parliament?s upper house, known as the Shura Council, would be dissolved; the constitution would be suspended; an interim council, composed mainly of civilians from different political groups, would be appointed to lead the country; and early presidential elections would be held. The plan matched closely with the demands of the protesters. In a speech broadcast on state TV, Mr. Morsi, who was elected in June 2012, acknowledged that he had made mistakes in his first year in office, but added that his ?iron will ? is unshaken.? He warned the opposition against ?making our enemies happy? by falling into a trap of taking the country in the wrong direction. ?Don?t let the revolution be stolen from you,? he said, according to the Egyptian news site Ahram Online. ?If the cost for legitimacy is my blood, I will give it easily.? In Cairo, anti-Morsi protesters massed in Tahrir Square and outside the presidential palace for a third consecutive day shouted ?leave!? A sixth Cabinet member quit the Morsi government on Tuesday. The army has given Mr. Morsi and the opposition until Wednesday to find a solution to the political turmoil that many fear could erupt into a civil war between pro- and anti-government forces. Earlier, in a message posted on Twitter, Mr. Morsi urged the army to withdraw its ultimatum. The military has prepared a plan to suspend the country?s Islamist-inspired constitution, dissolve the Islamist-dominated legislature and establish an interim administration led by the chief justice of Egypt?s supreme court to prepare for new presidential elections, Egypt?s state news agency reported. The military said it had no intention of seizing power in a coup. Mr. Morsi?s office said the president on Tuesday met with Gen. al-Sisi, who also serves as defense minister, but no details of the meeting were released. It said earlier it had not been consulted by the military before the ultimatum was issued. The military deadline would ?cause confusion in the complex national environment,? his office added. Secretary of State John F. Kerry on Tuesday spoke with Mohamed Kamel Amr, who resigned as foreign minister on Monday. Youth Minister El-Amry Farouq quit on Tuesday. President Obama called Mr. Morsi late Monday and encouraged him to ?take steps to show that he is responsive to [the protesters?] concerns and underscored that the current crisis can only be resolved through a political process,? the White House said. Meanwhile, Egypt?s largest Salafist group, the Salafist Call, and its political arm, the Nour Party, said Mr. Morsi should set a date for early presidential elections to avoid a ?civil war.? It also called for the formation of a caretaker technocrat Cabinet. Opposition activists have launched the protests under the banner of ?Tamarod,? or ?Rebellion.? The National Salvation Front, a relatively secular coalition of opposition forces that has endorsed the Tamarod petition, has appointed Mohamed ElBaradei, the former head of the U.N. nuclear watchdog, to represent it in negotiations on Egypt?s future. Even as anti-Morsi protests continued at Tahrir Square on Tuesday, thousands of the president?s supporters gathered in Nasr City, a district of the Egyptian capital. Mr. Morsi?s Islamist backers have sought to whip up support for the embattled president by mixing calls of martyrdom in their slogans. This has raised the prospect of violent clashes between pro- and anti-Morsi protesters. The likelihood that the Morsi administration will survive this crisis is low, according to analysts. ?It is really late in the game for concessions? by Mr. Morsi, said Michele Dunne, director of the Atlantic Council?s Rafik Hariri Center for the Middle East. ?The [Muslim Brotherhood] thought they had a firm deal with the military and clearly that deal is now off, so they have to recalculate.? Mr. Morsi belongs to the Muslim Brotherhood. Ahram Online reported discussions within the Muslim Brotherhood on proposing a referendum on the Morsi presidency. ?This is something that they could do to preserve a veneer of constitutional legitimacy and it could also give Morsi a chance to survive and a more graceful exit if he didn?t win the referendum,? said Ms. Dunne. The military said in a statement on its Facebook page that its 48-hour ultimatum to Mr. Morsi and the opposition was intended to push all political parties to ?quickly find solutions for the current crisis and reach a formula of national compromise that complies with the demands of the Egyptian people.? The protests have put the Obama administration in the awkward position of picking sides in a conflict among a democratically elected president, a military bankrolled by U.S. dollars and protesters espousing democratic values. So far the administration is staying neutral. ?We?re on neither side. We?re on the side of the Egyptian people,? said State Department spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki. U.S. officials have been in touch with the Egyptian government, the military and opposition leaders, but Washington has not called on Mr. Morsi to hold early elections, she said. In his phone call with Mr. Morsi, Mr. Obama ?reiterated that only Egyptians can make the decisions that will determine their future,? the White House said. Mr. Obama told Mr. Morsi that the United States is ?committed to the democratic process in Egypt and does not support any single party or group,? the White House said. ?He stressed that democracy is about more than elections; it is also about ensuring that the voices of all Egyptians are heard and represented by their government, including the many Egyptians demonstrating throughout the country.? U.S. favorability is low among Egyptians. ?Egyptian protesters have been carrying signs denouncing President Obama for supporting terrorism, because they feel Obama uncritically supports Morsi, whom they consider a terrorist,? said James Phillips, senior research fellow for Middle Eastern affairs at the Heritage Foundation. ?That is a sad sign that U.S. policy toward Egypt has gone off the rails.? The Obama administration has ?bent over backwards to court Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood,? said Mr. Phillips. ?It has turned a blind eye to Morsi?s power grabs, the rising persecution of Egypt?s ancient Coptic Christian minority, the crackdown on pro-democracy [organizations] that the Mubarak regime formerly tolerated, and the restrictions Morsi?s government has placed on freedom of the press, freedom of speech and freedom of religion. The administration needs to get tough with Morsi,? he said. Ms. Dunne said the Obama administration bears some of the blame for its weak influence in Egypt. She said the White House failed to ?mobilize meaningful economic support? for Egypt?s transition after the revolution that overthrew President Hosni Mubarak two years ago. ?It did not object strongly when Morsi made undemocratic moves, especially forcing a constitution on the country over the objections of many Egyptians,? she said. ?The United States has largely taken itself out of the game.? The U.S. provides Egypt with around $1.5 billion in annual foreign aid and most of it goes to the military. Mr. Phillips said the Obama administration should freeze all aid to Egypt unless Mr. Morsi reverses course. The military held power for a year and a half after Arab Spring pro-democracy protests ended Mr. Mubarak?s 29-year rule on Feb. 11, 2011. Copyright ? 2014 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission. ??Comment s ????Print? You Might Also Like Top 10 handguns in the U.S. Shares NFL cheerleaders fired up for the playoffs Shares Child stars: Then and now Shares Best female athletes in the world ? on and off the field Shares Best handguns ever made Shares More from this Story Egyptians chant slogans supporting Islamist President Mohammed Morsi during a rally near ... more > Related Stories U.S. denies taking sides in Egyptian politics amid Morsi protests 23 Posted 45 mins ago Egypt's military vows fight to death in Facebook posting, 'The Final Hours' 23 Posted 45 mins ago Photo Galleries Bang for your buck: Best handguns under $500 12 Photos Best handguns ever made 15 Photos Magazines can't agree on 2014's sexiest woman; you be the judge 12 Photos 10 greatest country music songs 10 Photos Secret's out: Victoria's angels on the runway 20 Photos Best combat rifles of all time 16 Photos Double Take: Celebrity look-alikes 20 Photos Hollywood's hottest gunslingers 19 Photos Dogs of War: K-9s in combat 19 Photos LeBron James' 'I can't breathe' T-shirt the latest display of politics on the playing field 12 Photos Cars you need to see from the L.A. Auto Show 26 Photos Gadget Geek's Cyber Monday Picks #3 5 Photos Question of the Day Should journalists be allowed to carry firearms in the wake of the Paris terrorist attack? Question of the Day? Yes ? No ? Not sure ? View results Ask Congress About the Author Ashish Kumar Sen Ashish Kumar Sen is a reporter covering foreign policy and international developments for The Washington Times. Prior to joining The Times, Mr. Sen worked for publications in Asia and the Middle East. His work has appeared in a number of publications and online news sites including the British Broadcasting Corp., Asia Times Online and Outlook magazine. ? Latest Stories Boko Haram takes credit for abduction of Nigerian schoolgirls, threatens to sell them Al Qaeda core degraded, but 'more aggressive' affiliates still pose threat to U.S. Political uncertainty and violence in first Iraqi election since U.S. withdraw Egypt judge sentences 683 Islamists to death over Morsi-tied violence Doctor's killing in latest Afghanistan attack puts NGOs in crosshairs Comments blog comments powered by Disqus Sign Up For Breaking News Alerts Breaking News AlertsEnter your email address: TWT Video Picks Most Popular French Islamist mini-states grow into problem out of government control MICHAEL McCAUL: Preventing a 'cyber Pearl Harbor' Paris terror spreads: Armed man takes hostages at kosher deli Abu Saad al-Ansari, Islamic State, brags: We did Paris 'tomorrow will be in Britain, America' Gay couples' children oppose same-sex marriage, tell of unpleasant upbringings House passes 40-hour workweek for Obamacare; Dems buck Obama veto threat Paris newspaper attack underscores terrorist shift to 'soft targets' Paris terror suspects, holed up in complex, take hostage: We want to 'die as martyrs' Anjem Choudary, Muslim cleric, on Paris terror: 'It was provoked [by] French regime' Democrats launch first filibuster of the year on Keystone Business Directory Popular Searches Our Voices Wesley Pruden Obama should stand tall to Islam David Keene The presidential look in the mirror Tom DeLay Conservative rebels trouble GOP-controlled Congress Deborah Simmons The 2024 Summer Olympics game Charles Ortel Will Egypt show America how to win the war on radical Islamic jihadism? Story TOpics Politics War_Conflict Mohamed Morsi Egypt Facebook More News Accountability Army Corps dumps $7M into defective Afghan plant House committee demands records of VA whistleblower Pentagon employee tried to view porn at work more than 12,000 times Security Islamic State brags: We did Paris ? ?tomorrow will be in Britain, America? Andrew Parker, MI5 chief: Al Qaeda plotting ?mass casualty attacks against the West? BREAKING: Paris terror suspects, holed up in complex, take hostage: We want to ?die as martyrs? D.C. Local Martin O?Malley: ?My feelings were hurt? by Maryland voters Boston trumps D.C. in bid to host 2024 Olympics Dump truck driver faces attempted murder charge after Md. police cruisers rammed World Explosions, gunfire rock plant where Paris terror suspects are holed BREAKING: Paris terror suspects, holed up in complex, take hostage: We want to ?die as martyrs? BREAKING: More trouble in France as armed man takes hostages at kosher deli Business & Economy U.S. adds a strong 252K jobs; unemployment 5.6 percent Joe Manchin: We could override Obama veto on Keystone bill Progressives push back on fast-track trade deals Faith & Family Gay couples? children oppose same-sex marriage, tell of unpleasant upbringings Gospel pioneer Andrae Crouch dies at 72 Cops in Philippines ordered to wear adult diapers during Pope?s visit Health House passes 40-hour workweek for Obamacare; just 12 Democrats back change HIV workplace infections very rare: CDC Connecticut court hears case of teen refusing chemotherapy Entertainment Gospel pioneer Andrae Crouch dies at 72 ?The Birds? star Rod Taylor dies at 84 Robert Downey Jr., ?Big Bang? win big at People?s Choice Awards Travel Top 5 travel gadgets for 2015 Regular vacations linked to worker well-being at all incomes Strong dollar makes world travel cheaper for America Technology Huffington Post website visitors: Warning, you might have a virus Bill Gates wants to turn human waste into drinking water $40K ?Mile Maker? rifle can kill from 1,800 yards Inside Policy Energy and Environment Nebraska court could force Obama to quit stalling on Keystone pipeline Banking & Finance Elizabeth Warren lays out liberal agenda in campaign-style speech to union allies Health Care Reform Democrats join rebuke of White House, back 40-hour workweek for Obamacare Second Amendment and Gun Control $40K 'Mile Maker' rifle can kill from 1,800 yards Immigration Reform Obama's deportation amnesty trips up AG pick Loretta Lynch in confirmation talks Homeland & Cybersecurity Lindsey Graham: Under Obama, 'we can expect ? more attacks' Aerospace & Defense Pentagon seeks weapons of tomorrow for today's wars Taxes & Budget Former HUD loan official who slipped through vetting process is sentenced to 2 years in prison Law Enforcement & Intelligence DEA agent swapped gifts for favors to Mexican nationals, federal prosecutors say Transportation & Infrastructure FAA's failure to regulate U.S. drone boom creates climate of confusion Newsletters ?Daily ?Weekly ?Ben Carson ?Pruden on Politics ?Guardian Terms of Use / Privacy Policy Find us on Facebook The Washington Times Sports Opinion Andy Parks Photos Find us on Twitter The Washington Times Politics Opinion Nation World D.C. Local Culture Sports Books Andy Parks Photos Home News Politics National World Security Business & Economy D.C. Local Faith & Family Inside Politics Inside the Beltway Inside the Ring Technology Entertainment Inside China Accountability Special Reports Communities Obituaries JUST THE HEADLINES Opinion Opinion Main Commentary Editorials Letters David Keene Pruden on Politics Ben Carson Monica Crowley Tammy Bruce Cal Thomas Water Cooler Books Cartoons Communities Ernest Istook Tom DeLay Rusty Humphries Christine O'Donnell Goldwater 50 Years Later Specials Sports Sports Main Football Baseball Basketball NCAA Olympics Tennis Golf Hockey Soccer Horse Racing NASCAR & Racing Redskins 2014 Media Media Main Radio Photo Galleries Video TellDC Ask Congress Play Sudoku Crossword Puzzle Market Book a Trip Buy a Home Weekly Ads Find a Doctor Store Classifieds TWT Rewards Advertise With Us Suriname Special Report U.S. & Russia Relations Subscribe Classifieds E-edition Customer Service Careers Terms Privacy Marketing RSS Advertise About Contact All site contents ? Copyright 2015?The Washington Times, LLC | 3600 New York Avenue NE | Washington, DC 20002 | 202-636-3000