NOAA developed a model see map below to show where radioactive debris from Fukushima will circulate in the Pacific Ocean. NPR, 9 March 2012 : More than two years after multiple meltdowns at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, a series of recent mishaps ? including a blackout set off by a dead rat and the discovery of leaks of thousands of gallons of radioactive water ? have underscored just how vulnerable the plant remains. Increasingly, experts are arguing that the plant?s operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, or Tepco, cannot be trusted to lead what is expected to be decades of cleanup and the decommissioning of the plant?s reactors without putting the public, and the environment, at risk. At the same time, the country?s new nuclear regulator remains woefully understaffed. It announced Wednesday that it would send a ninth official to the site ? to monitor the work of about 3,000 laborers. ?The Fukushima Daiichi plant remains in an unstable condition, and there is concern that we cannot prevent another accident,? Shunichi Tanaka, chairman of the Nuclear Regulation Authority, said at a news conference. ?We have instructed Tepco to work on reducing some of the biggest risks, and we as regulators will step up monitoring.? The biggest scare at the plant in recent days has been the discovery that at least three of seven underground storage pools are seeping thousands of gallons of radioactive water into the soil. On Wednesday, Tepco acknowledged that the lack of adequate storage space for contaminated water had become a ?crisis,? and said it would begin emptying the pools. But the company said that the leaks will continue over the several weeks that it will likely take to transfer the water to other containers. ? Tepco stores more than a quarter-million tons of radioactive water at the site and says the amount could double within 3 years. But as outside experts have discovered with horror, the company had lined the pits for the underground pools with only two layers of plastic each 1.5 millimeters thick, and a third, clay-based layer just 6.5 millimeters thick. And because the pools require many sheets hemmed together, leaks could be springing at the seams, Tepco has said. ?No wonder the water is leaking,? said Hideo Komine, a professor in civil engineering at Ibaraki University, just south of Fukushima. He said that the outer protective lining should have been hundreds of times thicker. The stricken nuclear power plant at Fukushima has probably been leaking contaminated water into the ocean for two years, ever since an earthquake and tsunami badly damaged the plant, Japan?s chief nuclear regulator said ? In unusually candid comments, Shunichi Tanaka, the head of the Nuclear Regulation Authority, also said that neither his staff nor the plant?s operator knew exactly where the leaks were coming from, or how to stop them. The operator, Tokyo Electric Power, has reported spikes in the amounts of radioactive cesium, tritium and strontium detected in groundwater at the plant, adding urgency to the task of sealing any leaks. Radioactive cesium and strontium, especially, are known to raise risks of cancer in humans. Mr. Tanaka?s comments bring into sharp relief the precariousness of the cleanup at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant, where core meltdowns occurred at three of the six reactors. A critical problem has been the groundwater that has been pouring into the basements of the damaged reactor buildings and becoming contaminated. Workers have been pumping the water out to be stored in dozens of tanks at the plant, but have not stopped the inflow. Until recently, Tokyo Electric, known as Tepco, flatly denied that any of that water was leaking into the ocean, even though various independent studies of radiation levels in the nearby ocean have suggested otherwise. In recent days, Tepco has retreated to saying that it was not sure whether there was a leak into the ocean. Tokyo Electric Power Co. has started taking measures to contain highly radioactive groundwater at the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear plant, but its strategy is based on a theory that is disputed by industry experts. ? The utility?s measures, intended to prevent the underground radioactive water from spilling into the sea, could end up exacerbating the problem, some experts have warned. ? On July 12, TEPCO said the No. 3 observation well at the plant produced a total reading of 1,400 becquerels of radioactive substances that emit beta rays, including strontium, per liter of water sampled on the previous day. No radioactivity had been detected in the No. 3 well a week earlier. The No. 3 well is about 200 meters south of the No. 1 well, where high radioactive levels have been detected for some time. Water sampled on July 8 from another well, 21 meters seaward of the No. 1 well, produced a record 630,000 becquerels of tritium, a radioactive isotope of hydrogen. That level is about 10 times higher than the legal safety limit. The latest developments date back to late May, when water from the No. 1 well, on the seaside of the No. 2 reactor turbine building, produced high levels of radioactive substances. The readings were 500,000 becquerels of tritium per liter, or eight times the legal limit, and 1,000 becquerels of strontium per liter, or 30 times the legal limit. TEPCO had earlier dug a number of observation wells to check for any new influx of radioactive water into the sea because seaborne levels of radioactive cesium had been slow to decline. After the spread of radioactive substances was confirmed, TEPCO rushed to dig four additional observation wells near the No. 1 well. It also began analyzing seawater north of the water intakes for the reactors. High radioactivity levels continue to be detected in the observation wells. TEPCO officials said they need more data to determine how the radioactive materials have been spreading. ?The Fukushima No. 1 plant is filling up with water,? Shunichi Tanaka, chairman of the Nuclear Regulation Authority, told a news conference on July 24. ?Inevitably the contaminated water will have to be discharged into the sea after TEPCO processes it properly and lowers its radioactivity levels below the standards.? ?Fukushima trench water crisis returns?, The Japan Times, 27 July 2013 ? ?Tokyo Electric Power Co. said Saturday that the trench problem at the crippled Fukushima No. 1 nuclear plant has cropped up again and is sending highly radioactive water into the sea.? Recovery of overexploited marine populations has been slow, and most remain below target biomass levels. A key question is whether this is due to insufficient reductions in harvest rates or the erosion of population resilience. Using a global meta-analysis of overfished stocks, we find that resilience of those stocks subjected to moderate levels of overfishing is enhanced, not compromised, offering the possibility of swift recovery. However, prolonged intense overexploitation, especially for collapsed stocks, not only delays rebuilding but also substantially increases the uncertainty in recovery times, despite predictable influences of fishing and life history. Timely and decisive reductions in harvest rates could mitigate this uncertainty. Instead, current harvest and low biomass levels render recovery improbable for the majority of the world?s depleted stocks. I often wonder if people read the post before criticizing. Your comment is a poster child for this. This post was about the on-going release of radiation into the oceans ? two years now, accellerating, with no end in sight. With the possibility of much larger releases from the holding ponds or reactor complex. You cite two sources, neither of which mention this issues or even appear relevant to it. He does not mention this issue, let alone give a rebuttal to it. First, he discusses direct effect on humans ? not the subject of this post. Second, this was written long before the data about radiation releases become known to the public ? because TEPCO lied. Again, I see nothing there about effect of radiation released on the ocean ecosystems. A google search returns no hits for ?ocean?, ?sea?, or ?fish? at this site the directory is not helpful, hence the use of Google . We analysed the extent to which European politicians have adhered to scientific recommendations on annual total allowable catches TACs from 1987 to 2011, covering most of the period of the Common Fisheries Policy CFP . For the 11 stocks examined, TACs were set higher than scientific recommendations in 68% of decisions. Politically-adjusted TACs averaged 33% above scientifically recommended levels. There was no evidence that the 2002 reform of the CFP improved decision-making, as was claimed at the time. We modelled the effects of such politically-driven decision-making on stock sustainability. Our results suggest that political adjustment of scientific recommendations dramatically increases the probability of a stock collapsing within 40 years. Well done for bringing this up, the ?silent catastrophe?. Here in Australia we are being warned that the Great Barrier Reef is dying, not the least of which by agricultural runoffs. Also here is Australia was the sad, sad story of the Orange Roughy, a deep water fish. I am old enough to remember the whole process, from discovery, to fishing, to high demand it is very tasty , to over fishing, then collapse. What no one in the fishing industry did and the under funded fishery scientists took too long to be able to study . was that it is very long lived with a slow reproductive cycle and our catch rate was orders of magnitude too high to be sustainable. And it is the perfect example of the whole worldwide fishing industry a mining system with no regard for sustainability. As one fish type runs out then they go for another .. and another .. until there is nothing left at all. Basically they mine the seas. It is also incredibly wasteful, more often than not, anything but the type they are fishing for is just thrown back dead of course when caught. And the massive industrialisation, where a single ship nowadays can be as big as a whole fishing fleet of the past. Then there is the the whole ?long line? thing, nets tens of kilometers long, that catch and kill everything. Plus dumping of just about everything into the sea. You just have to wonder at the mentality of it all. This is behaviour that I term ?beyond stupidity?. On the whole Fukushima thing, what most people don?t realise is that people can survive, with limited but not none health effects from elevated radiation doses though the sources and types of radiation are critical to that , but not contineous higher levels what had been happening in Fallujah, the most nuked place on Earth post WW2, should cure people of that idea . What the Japanese Govt has not been able to do that the old USSR did, is stop the radiation leaking. The USSR shut down the Chernobyl leaks incredibly quickly. Yes there was a spike in radiation from the release but it stopped very quickly a friend of mine, a nuclear engineer, marveled at how quickly they managed it and said that the west couldn?t have done it that well . Fukushima will gone on releasing high radiation for decades, the way they are frigging around and because of that we will definitely see very adverse effects from it, probably in the reasonably near future. True story listened to on the radio, a Japanese business man in construction had all the concrete pouring equipment ready to go and seal off Fukushima, massive equipment. Went to the Govt to go and do it and could have been there in the first week? and was fobbed off, they ended up shipping in much later foreign equipment .. wonder how many greased palms that took. And it is still not sealed off!!!! That old, useless, hopeless,incompetent USSR still managed to do it in about a month!!! Here is my rule: When you see repeated, long term criminal Govt incompetence corruption is always at the heart of it and there have been few Governmental systems more corrupt than Japan well done MacArthur, a person not adverse to some, well a lot of, even a heck of a lot of, personal corruption himself, $500,000 from the Phillipines pre invasion as a start, heck knows how much in Japan as its Caesar . ?The predictions of *ongoing* horrific disaster have been proven wrong. ? Conclusion: regarding the health of the affected populations, there _is_ an ongoing horrific disaster ? which ?the US news media approach? by ?not mentioning it at all?. As for the consequence on wildlife, the referred article in Slate is interesting, but I would not be as sanguine about a positive outlook. 1 The studies, all extremely limited in scope ? either spatially Mousseau and Moller , or statistically raw census of animals by Ukraine and Bielorussia ? lead to inconclusive results. We just do not know what is the real health of the wildlife there. 3 It is not surprising that large regions abandoned by human beings end up attracting a lot of diverse wildlife. The heavily mined no-man?s land between North and South Korea is another such a place. Apologies: my statement was unclear. I was referring to the wildlife, and the effect on them from living in a high radiation zone ie, on animals born or migrated there after the accident . I did not mean to imply anything about the effects from the immediate burst of radiation on the people from the meltdown. That had a range of effects from death to less severe. About the wildlife: while the studies continue, it?s already clear that the most extreme statements made after the accident were not accurate referring to the area as a long term dead or barren one . While there is probably some level of effect, it?s so low so that the studies released to date don?t show it except in some hot spots . That is, the data to date put a relatively low maximum on the effects. From vague memory, I think the studies from the WW2 nukes show similarly low long-term effects on residents from post-blast exposure that could be wrong, however ? too long ago to rely on my memory . Due to a complexity of the problem, there is no a well-defined answer to this question. One can anticipate from its definition that ionizing radiation can damage biological molecules. However, this radiation was universally present; it exists now and will exist at all times. The evolution of life takes place under conditions of permanent radiation influence. Moreover, radioactive sources exist both outside and inside of biological objects. The problem is in the fact how much the latter are able to compensate for damages caused by radiation. Here again we observe the widest spectrum of compensation and regeneration mechanisms as well as of radiation sensitivity. Of fundamental importance is the level of biological organization molecule, cell, tissue, organism, population, etc. , species of animals, radiation influence types, doses, etc. At present, the form and levels of radiation influence within the Chornobyl zone mostly do not cause visible ?abnormal? or pathological effects such effects disappear well before catching investigator?s eyes . Most of consequences are never revealed until complicated modern biological studies are done higher mutagenesis level, change of populations? genetic structures, citogenetic effects, etc. . As a rule, they do not constitute a ?threat? to organisms? population as a whole, but they may cause degradation or even death of single individuals. Thank you. A search produced this article, which summarizes what is actually known on the effects of Chernobyl on wildlife: