Document: DOJ Community Relations Service was deployed to Sanford, FL, ?to provide technical assistance for the preparation of possible marches and rallies related to the fatal shooting of a 17-year-old African American male.?? Washington, DC ? Judicial Watch announced today that it has obtained documents in response to local, state, and federal records requests revealing that a little-known unit of the Department of Justice DOJ , the Community Relations Service CRS , was deployed to Sanford, FL, following the Trayvon Martin shooting to help organize and manage rallies and protests against George Zimmerman. JW filed a Freedom of Information Act FOIA request with the DOJ on April 24, 2012; 125 pages were received on May 30, 2012. JW administratively appealed the request on June 5, 2012, and received 222 pages more on March 6, 2013. According to the documents: * Correction to bulleted point number three: ?to provide interregional support for protest deployment in Florida.? Correction required due to unintentional copywriting error. From a Florida Sunshine Law request filed on April 23, 2012, JW received thousands of pages of emails on April 27, 2012, in which was found an email by Miami-Dade County Community Relations Board Program Officer Amy Carswell from April 16, 2012: ?Congratulations to our partners, Thomas Battles, Regional Director, and Mildred De Robles, Miami-Dade Coordinator and their co-workers at the U.S. Department of Justice Community Relations Service for their outstanding and ongoing efforts to reduce tensions and build bridges of understanding and respect in Sanford, Florida? following a news article in the Orlando Sentinel about the secretive ?peacekeepers.? In reply to that message, Battles said: ?Thank you Partner. You did lots of stuff behind the scene to make Miami a success. We will continue to work together.? He signed the email simply Tommy. Carswell responded: ?That?s why we make the big bucks.? Set up under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the DOJ?s CRS, the employees of which are required by law to ?conduct their activities in confidence,? reportedly has greatly expanded its role under President Barack Obama. Though the agency claims to use ?impartial mediation practices and conflict resolution procedures,? press reports along with the documents obtained by Judicial Watch suggest that the unit deployed to Sanford, FL, took an active role in working with those demanding the prosecution of Zimmerman. On April 15, 2012, during the height of the protests, the Orlando Sentinel reported, ?They [the CRS] helped set up a meeting between the local NAACP and elected officials that led to the temporary resignation of police Chief Bill Lee according to Turner Clayton, Seminole County chapter president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.? The paper quoted the Rev. Valarie Houston, pastor of Allen Chapel AME Church, a focal point for protestors, as saying ?They were there for us,? after a March 20 meeting with CRS agents. Separately, in response to a Florida Sunshine Law request to the City of Sanford, Judicial Watch also obtained an audio recording of a ?community meeting? held at Second Shiloh Missionary Baptist Church in Sanford on April 19, 2012. The meeting, which led to the ouster of Sanford?s Police Chief Bill Lee, was scheduled after a group of college students calling themselves the ?Dream Defenders? barricaded the entrance to the police department demanding Lee be fired.? According to the Orlando Sentinel, DOJ employees with the CRS had arranged a 40-mile police escort for the students from Daytona Beach to Sanford. ?These documents detail the extraordinary intervention by the Justice Department in the pressure campaign leading to the prosecution of George Zimmerman,? said Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton. ?My guess is that most Americans would rightly object to taxpayers paying government employees to help organize racially-charged demonstrations.? bmiller107 joecoastie Make no mistake about this. The Justice Dept under Eric Holder is actively creating a atmosphere of anger by fueling racial fires over the Zimmerman verdict all over the country. Holder addressed the NAACP convention in Florida yesterday and as much as called for protests in 100 cities. The Obama administration has been waiting for a situation like this to create civil unrest throughout the country. If Obama can get enough riots going on in enough cities, he can then declare marshal law and suspend the Constitution until he deems the situation is safe, which he will not declare things safe for quite a while. Do not underestimate Obama or Holder, they are racists and are pushing for this unrest and dividing the country even more than it is already. Tomlukens is naive if he thinks this is not connected to the White House, all he has to do is read or listen to what Obama and Holder have said to know where this is going. It?s as naive as saying that the IRS cooked up targeting conservative groups on their own without presidential approval. Tomlukens needs to read Inside the Third Reich to know just how this administration works. The Obama admin is the Fourth Reich! mcptginc tomlukens?.this has nothing to do about the WH. The Dept. of Justice has no business funding rallies, protests, or to get involved to put pressure on LOCAL law enforcement to have a police chief removed from his job or to prosecute any case!! If the DOJ chooses to prosecute for human rights violations that is a totally different story. This is a corruption of the law under the 1964 Civil Rights Act. If I am reading your take correctly you are way off base. The DOJ made it a racially and politically motivated prosecution. This WH came out during the arrest of the professor in Cambridge Mass. where Obama claimed the Cambridge police acted ?stupidly? before all the facts were in. It seems that they are quick to rush to judgement when it is an issue of color. They are, both the DOJ, and the WH, supposed to represent America as a whole not to promote politics when it comes to justice and the rule of law. This quote??These documents detail the extraordinary intervention by the Justice Department in the pressure campaign leading to the prosecution of George Zimmerman,? said Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton. ?My guess is that most Americans would rightly object to taxpayers paying government employees to help organize racially-charged demonstrations.??.is EXACTLY what they attempted to do. Because I also believe and feel that our taxpayer dollars should not go to any one group for any reason just because they promote the political agenda of any branch of Gov?t regardless of their political affiliation. ?Justice-CRS is an apolitical entity that sends experts trained to diffuse building situations of a particularly racially divisive nature.? Now its getting comical you are just reading government talking points at this point obviously having not even read the article. Your comment states, ?First of all?the CRS is a division of JUSTICE?..which is an autonomous branch of government entirely disconnected from the Executive branch. Any undertaking of the Justice-CRS is DOJ policy and can not be tied of course to the president, the administration or the exec branch at all.? You?re incorrectly associating the Department of Justice DoJ , an executive branch office, with the judicial branch of government. The Judicial Branch includes circuit courts, courts of appeals and the SCOTUS. The DoJ, headed by the US Attorney General, is comprised of such federal agencies as the FBI, US Marshalls, Bureau of ATF&E, and the US Attorney?s Office, among others. So, in this instance, your claim that it?s ?simply irresponsible to try to connect any action of CRS to the whitehouse? is outrageously inaccurate. All activities of the DoJ ultimately fall at the foot of the Attorney General, Eric Holder, an executive branch political appointee and presidential cabinet member nominated by President Obama. Therefore it?s entirely correct, and responsible, to connect the actions of CRS to the White House. Furthermore, you?re assertion that it?s ?further idiocy to remark that they CRS have somehow chosen a side in the murder trial or have escalated tensions. You can not make your political point unless you attempt to do so responsibly.? is laughable for two reasons. One, and most egregiously, you?ve asserted your claims irresponsibly by not basing them on factual knowledge of the different branches of government, to wit DoJ Executive and the Judiciary. Two, the information provided above by Judicial Watch JW clearly shows a CRS bias towards only one dimension of the Martin/Zimmerman problem; to wit assisting those who demanded the arrest of Zimmerman for the alleged crime s . By doing so they may have kept such marches peaceable but they also enabled them to be much larger in scale and breadth of scope. This assistance, according to the claims in this article, were instrumental in forcing the hand of local law enforcement, which should always remain impartial to political pressure. In view of the original intent behind the creation of the CRS as part of the Civil Rights Act, the conduct of this organization with regards to the Zimmerman case at least, clearly appears to be biased towards race baiting rather than helping a wronged community find its voice without violent repercussions. @tomlukens If you read the entire press release, you can see that JudicialWatch does reference the DOJ?s CRS legislatively prescribed duties, and you can also see how such duties weren?t carried out impartially, as they were supposed to. Also, while you are correct in your assumption that CRS is designed to operate autonomously of the Executive branch, as does the DOJ, I would remind you that its Director of CRS is a Presidential appointee. The claim that the DOJ can operate independently of the Administration that is what is nonsense?why would the Attorney General need to appoint Special Prosecutors to investigate possible criminal actions taken by Presidents if the DOJ operated completely autonomously from the Executive Branch? You need to read no further than this excerpt from the press release to see exactly why the CRS? actions in this incident reflect negatively on the Obama Administration: ?Set up under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the DOJ?s CRS?reportedly has greatly expanded its role under President Barack Obama.? @tomlukens: Your post was complete koolaid drinking delusion. Did you copy and paste from Media Matters? You criticize Fitton for being critical of the Justice Department by confirming that CRS is a division of DOJ which you describe as a completely separate and autonomous branch of government that can?t be tied to the President. You also criticize Fitton by saying that he?s wrong to fault the President for CRS actions which you claim are apolitical and don?t take sides. Point of Order: Fitton did not blame the President for the illegal, despotic actions of the CRS, he placed the blame squarely on the shoulders of U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder who heads the DOJ. AG Holder was appointed by President Obama, is a presidential cabinet member and serves at the President?s pleasure as an integral part of the Obama Administration, Executive Branch of the U.S. Government. Obama is ultimately responsible for anything his Administration does. While Fitton does not place blame on the President at this time, Mr. Fitton is too generous. I believe Obama has politicized every government entity he can apply pressure to, and is also responsible for the politicized DOJ and CRS illegal activities. While there are a number of strong contenders, no Obama minion has politicized his office, aside from Obama himself, more than AG Holder. Refusing to defend existing laws such as DOMA. Neglecting to prosecute New Black Panther members who threatened and tried to discourage white voters because racism only exists as white against black; there?s no such thing as black against white racism. Suing states for passing laws to have local law enforcement help federal officials enforce national laws against illegal immigration when DHS and DOJ refuse to enforce existing laws. Fast and Furious gun trafficking to Mexican drug cartels and lying to Congress about it. Supporting and defending the President?s belief that he can kill Americans without due process whenever he feels like it. Lying on a petition for warrants to wiretap and monitor electronic communications of a large number of reporters working on stories that were derogatory to the Obama Administration, shopping it to several judges before one would submit to their demands, then lied to Congress about it. The CRS-DOJ says a lot of nice, friendly, helpful things about itself on its website. However, there is abundant evidence obtained by Judicial Watch that they are Obama Administration hired gun outlaws violating the Constitution by inciting the overthrow of local government and law enforcement entities. My advice to you @tomlukens, and to all like tom who have lost the ability, through disuse, to think critically, to be aware of what?s going on around you and to read and understand good and truthful literature, is to go cold turkey off the koolaid and any other mind-altering drugs or websites you may be using and when you?re in recovery, gradually learn to use your brain again. God help us all! People need to step back from political ideology and look at what they did. They sent 2 people in to make friends with the most ardent opponents of GZ. They supported their ideas to make them happy, and anyone else including the police chief or GZ himself was worth the effort. Conviction is a must, because they look at this as a giant DHS issue. Rioting in multiple major US cities. As a political leader, what do you judge the greater good to be? In this case the government decided that it was worth the lives of GZ and anyone else associated with this case, including lawyers, judge, jurors and witnesses, to avoid wider violence. This was a simple infiltration effort. ALL THE WHILE they are collecting information about the people they are meeting. Where they live, numbers, friends associates, FB etc. Spying on Americans and storing data, and identifying potentially subverse or violent people. At least potentially in the government?s eyes. Everything can be a threat nowadays, and agents of agencies like CRS are just a front for the DHS and NSA. I realize that no one cares, but many decades ago, I stood against the racism of my birth state, North Carolina. No I didn?t do anything remarkable, just did the right thing in the face of my own race?s prejudice. I was pretty much an outcast in middle and high school because of my stand. Now, after all these years, I see one racism exchanged for another. I have to ask myself what was the use in fighting white racism only to get black racism instead? Maybe humans as a group, are just too stupid and petty to continue to be the top of the food chain on this planet if this is the best that the ?greatest nation on earth? can do. Don?t mean to rant but it looks like I should have taken the easy and self centered way out for all the good it did. Naw, you can?t change who you are. You either stand for what?s right, or you are part of the problem. President Obama, Attorney General Holder, you sirs are part of the problem.