The march started with a rally in Union Square at 6 p.m., where people chanted no justice, no peace and all power to the people. The crowd left the park, marching through the East Village and the Flatiron District before turning north. A police line at 34th Street stopped marchers moving up Seventh Avenue, and officers were heard telling protesters to keep it civil. The crowd then moved to, and up, Eighth Avenue. They cheered as they reached the lights and honking cabs of Times Square about 9 p.m., and later sat in the street -- fully blocking traffic. Part of the crowd later reached Harlem, marching up Malclom X Boulevard. After midnight, some continued into the Bronx over the 145th St. Bridge, according to a tweet by Daily News reporter Irving DeJohn. Live video streamed by protesters showed a handful of people detained in a scuffle with police on the Upper East Side, but the NYPD would not say whether any arrests were made as of late Sunday. Overall the protests were peaceful, with the police allowing them to continue and directing traffic along the way. The crowd skewed young, and one could feel the influence of Occupy Wall Street, which had promoted the rally. But early in the evening, the march also included families with children. Sunday afternoon, several memorials were written in chalk on Union Square's sidewalks reading we are all Trayvon. One had the outline of a body with a can of Arizona ice tea and bag of Skittles, items Martin had bought and was carrying the evening he was killed 17 months ago. City Councilman Jumanne Williams among the protesters, wearing a black hoodie with white lettering that read unarmed civilian. Meanwhile, Mayor Bloomberg is taking aim at Florida's and other states' so-called stand-your-ground laws, which allow deadly force when someone feels threatened. He says they can inspire dangerous vigilantism and protect those who act recklessly. At the heart of the protests one senses is the common man?s frustration that one man can have his life taken away by another man whilst that man not being held accountable. Yet for as much as one can be rightly agitated at the state of affairs with the justice system one in the end can not fault jurors and lawyers of simply doing their job but that of a justice system which has increasingly become skewed, archaic and beset with a legacy that historically has been to the detriment and degradation of minors, African Americans, the poor and the disenfranchised. A discussion which one wonders has been hijacked and polarized by civil activists, politicians and the media alike... AMERICA FAILED? Yes, under the black President, America failed to deliver any meaningful civil rights improvements to the black community. If the T. Martin's case was an isolated one, no one would have wasted their single tear, but America's jails are filled with millions of Martins, and thousand of Martins have been mercilessly killed with minor fault or no fault. If Obama and so called other white and non-white Organizations, who are shedding their crocodile tears for the last 2 days on this event, really would like to correct the failure of our Court system; they should force the Congress and Senate to form a high level civil rights Commission to inquire the defects of the Court system including unlawful and racial arrest, killings and punishing of black and Latino youths, and stop filling our jails with these unfortunate human beings. Who's so innocent in life? GZ had severe anger issues that caused him to lose his job and have court mandated anger management classes. TM might not have been perfect but he most certainly didn't deserve to die. And are you saying that if one black person does something wrong, all black people should be considered a threat? Gee, I guess after people like Jeffrey Dahmer and Ted Bundy, all white men are suspects?? Also GZ's injuries were not substantial. Substantial head injuries do not end with 2 bandaids, no concussion nor stiches. That is a fact. ER's do take xrays and if there was a concern that his nose was broken, an xray would've been taken. The scary thing is people see a bit of blood and swollen skin and think that something extreme had to occur. TM had every right to defend himself, stand his ground and be where he was walking as slow or as fast as he wanted and looking at whatever he wanted to look at. He was minding his business. GZ was not, killed someone and has yet to even say sorry. How does one right or wrong take another person's life and not feel remorse and then dare say it was part of God's plan? I don't want him to be harmed, but I hope and pray that GZ doesn't get a moment's peace until he finally realizes the impact of his actions. This is a terrible tragedy, but Trayvon Martin was clearly beating this guy up. As the defense said, had he been shot in the hip and lived, he Trayvon would have been charged with assault. Comparing Trayvon with Rodney King is ridiculous. The cases are not at all alike. This was completely media driven. The media was so completely biased. This is very sad, but the conversation has been very one sided. George Zimmerman's injuries were substantial. This was not racial, he was reacting to a rash of crimes in his area. I actually heard one anchor on MSNBC apologizing for all white people. Our lowest expectations have been fulfilled. Another sorry day for legislatures and the criminal justice system. I only hope the protests continue, especially in Florida and states with these ridiculous gun laws. What Zimmerman did was hateful, but he himself is a pathetic character and a product of a society that promotes stereotyping, paranoia and aggression. The criminal justice system is only encouraging a vicious cycle which is ultimately unsustainable, and the eventual blow-back for all of us will be even worse if we do not learn how to live in civility and understanding and respect human life above possessions and territories.