By Steve Nolan Published: 02:52 EST, 3 July 2013 | Updated: 10:20 EST, 4 July 2013 The number of sex attacks and rapes against female protesters in Egypt's Tahrir Square has hit 91 in just four days. Vicious mobs attacked the women as millions of protesters took to the streets to demand President Mohammed Morsi step down. Today Egypt's military moved to tighten its control on key institutions, even putting officers in the newsroom of state TV - the military leaders deadline for President Morsi to find a resolution to Egypt's political crisis or else the army would impose its own political plan passed this afternoon. Scroll down for video Egypt's Al-Ahram newspaper said the road map would establish a three-member presidential council to be chaired by the head of the Supreme Constitutional Court. 'Al-Ahram learnt that with the end of the 48-hour period set by the armed forces it is expected in the hours that follow it, one of two things: either Morsi announces his resignation himself, or the declaration of his removal through the road map for the future set out by the armed forces,' it said. But an armed forces spokesman denied the claims and said that the countries leaders would instead be called to crisis talks. The latest developments came after pictures emerged of protesters shining laser pointers at a military helicopter on Sunday night in an apparent attempt to bring it down. Most of those killed in overnight violence reportedly died in a single incident of fighting outside Cairo University. Fresh eurozone worries and turmoil in Egypt caused an end to the recent recovery in the FTSE 100 Index today as oil prices rose to a year-long high. As well as political uncertainty in Egypt, stock market investors were spooked by disappointing data from the Chinese non-manufacturing sector and growing concerns over the future of Portugal's coalition government as it attempts to pursue the austerity measures demanded by creditors.? The FTSE 100 Index was down 1.6% or 99.9 points to 6204, eliminating some of the rebound seen in recent days after earlier losses triggered by credit crunch fears in China and the prospect of a tapering of economic stimulus measures in the United States. Egypt is not an oil producer but its control of the Suez Canal, one of the world's busiest shipping lanes, gives it a crucial role in global energy supplies. The uncertain global outlook was reflected in the price of oil, with the New York listed price at its highest level in more than a year after a rise of more than two US dollars to around 102 US dollars a barrel. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office FCO is recommending against all but essential travel to most parts of Egypt, following last night's protests. Mr Cameron assured MPs in the Commons that action was being taken to safeguard UK nationals in Egypt and the British Embassy in Cairo. He said: 'These are deeply disturbing scenes, the level of violence is appalling. 'We should appeal to all sides to calm and stop the levels of violence, and particularly sexual assaults.' Mr Cameron added: 'It is not for this country to support any single group or party. What we should support is proper democratic processes and proper government by consent. 'Very clear messages have been sent to president Morsi - including by president Obama who spoke to him directly, and we have also been communicating through our ambassadors - that, yes, he has a democratic mandate and we respect that, but democracy also means ensuring that everyone has a voice and that leaders have a responsibility to represent all Egyptians and show they are responsive to their concerns. 'That's what the government needs to do in order to bring about peace and stability in that country.' President Mohammed Morsi, who yesterday rebuffed an army ultimatum to force a resolution to Egypt's political crisis, made an emotional speech which was aired live to the nation. Morsi, who a year ago was inaugurated as Egypt's first freely elected president, pledged to protect his 'constitutional legitimacy' with his life. He accused loyalists of his ousted autocratic predecessor Hosni Mubarak of exploiting the wave of protests to topple his regime and thwart democracy. 'There is no substitute for legitimacy,' said Morsi, who at times angrily raised his voice, thrust his fist in the air and pounded the podium. He warned that electoral and constitutional legitimacy 'is the only guarantee against violence.' Morsi's defiant statement showed that he and his Muslim Brotherhood are prepared to run the risk of challenging the army. It also entrenches the lines of confrontation between his Islamist supporters and Egyptians angry over what they see as his efforts to impose control by his Muslim Brotherhood and his failures to deal with the country's multiple problems.? The crisis has become a struggle over whether a popular uprising can overturn the verdict of the ballot box. Morsi's opponents say he has lost his legitimacy through mistakes and power grabs and that their turnout on the streets shows the nation has turned against him. Nationwide protests against Morsi prompted the army to tell feuding politicians they had 48 hours find a resolution with the opposition or it would impose its own road map for the country. Neither side showed any signs of backing down however with Morsi arguing he had not been consulted by the military and would pursue his own plans for national reconciliation. But the Islamist leader looked increasingly isolated with the liberal opposition refusing to talk to him and the armed forces, backed by millions of protesters in the street, giving him until today to agree to share power.? 																																																																																					 The army's ultimatum raised worries on both sides that the army could take over outright as it did after the 2011 ousting of autocrat Hosni Mubarak. It has raised the risk of a backlash from Morsi's Islamist backers, including his powerful Muslim Brotherhood and hard-liners, some of whom once belonged to armed militant groups. Pro-Morsi marches numbering in the several thousands began after nightfall on Monday in a string of cities around the country, sparking clashes in some places. An alliance of the Brotherhood and Islamists read a statement at a televised conference calling on people to rally to prevent 'any attempt to overturn' Morsi's election a year ago. A line of around 1,500 men with shields, helmets and sticks - assigned with protecting the rally - stamped their feet in military-like lines, singing, 'stomp our feet, raise a fire. Islam's march is coming'. President Barack Obama said the U.S. is committed to democracy in Egypt, not any particular leader The FCO is advising against travel to all regions of Egypt except resorts on the Red Sea in South Sinai and in the Red Sea Governorate on the Egyptian mainland. There are no travel restriction warnings for destinations in the region of Sharm el Sheikh, Taba, Nuweiba and Dahab which are popular with sun-seeking British tourists. The FCO also deems safe the St Catherine's Monastery World Heritage Site, road travel between and from Red Sea resorts to the monastery approaching from the east, and transfers between the resorts and airports of Taba and Sharm el Sheikh. A Foreign Office spokesman said: 'Although we are not recommending immediate departure at the moment, British nationals already in Egypt in areas where we advise against all but essential travel should consider whether they have a pressing need to remain. 'While in Egypt they should stay at or close to home or a place of safety eg their hotel , keep a low profile and pay close attention to their personal safety, particularly in the larger cities. 'They should take particular care to avoid crowds. The situation is changeable and they should continue to watch our travel advice closely.' There are no warnings against the use of Cairo airport as a transit stop, providing travellers do not leave the airport grounds, the FCO said.