The opposition say that Mr Morsi has lost credibility and that the country is in danger of economic, social and political collapse. They insist they want fresh elections, not a return to military dictatorship. However, some have called on the army to intervene to remove Mr Morsi - an uncomfortable reminder for many of the period after Mr Mubarak's fall when the country was run by the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, and there were numerous abuses of power and repeated, violent street clashes. 3. The country's most senior cleric warned of a risk of civil war. Is that likely? The good news from Sunday was that the protests in Cairo were overwhelmingly peaceful, despite fears on both sides - and in Egyptian allies like the United States - of violence followed by some sort of collapse of the state. That was remarkable especially considering the numbers: perhaps more than two million people were on the streets at nightfall. People loot the burnt headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood in the Moqattam district of Cairo AFP/Getty Images However there was some violence at protests outside Muslim Brotherhood offices in provincial towns and cities, with six people reported killed. The most striking clashes were at the small headquarters building of the national Muslim Brotherhood on the outskirts of Cairo, which was hit by petrol bombs and, on Monday morning, ransacked. Up to eight protesters were reportedly killed when some of the defenders inside fired buckshot into the crowd. 4. Does the relative calm mean that the army and police have the situation under control? Not at all, and this remains the most worrying point for almost all concerned. The police have all but withdrawn from the streets since the anti-Mubarak revolution, when they were blamed for shooting dead hundreds of protesters. The result has been a big rise in crime and street violence. In advance of Sunday's protests, the police said they would only protect public buildings, meaning the Brotherhood buildings which were targets of protest and attack were only defended by their own members. The army said it would maintain its traditional role of protecting the organs of state - such as the presidency building and major roads - but would only step into the political fray if there were a total breakdown of order. The result is that many people, above all the leaders of the Brotherhood, still feel vulnerable, with a risk that they might start building their own militia. Getty Images 5. Can't both sides get round the table and thrash out a compromise? That is what the Brotherhood is calling for. But the opposition says that the Brotherhood will use its hold on the presidency to force through changes that impinge on personal freedoms. They point to the new constitution, which enshrines a more Islamist vision of society, weakening protection for the rights of women and religious minorities, as an example. The main opposition parties and Tamarod, the Rebellion campaign which organised the protests and says it has 22 million signatures calling for Mr Morsi to quit, say there can be no negotiations. They are now pushing the advantage they gained from the scale of yesterday's turn-out. The Brotherhood says if the opposition refuse to participate in the political process it cannot complain if it does not like the results. 6. Can Egypt survive? All we see on television is chaos and protests. There are still businesses open and tourists arriving. But the numbers are terrible - even the site of the Pyramids is almost empty most of the time, while at Luxor lines of empty cruise boats line the banks of the Nile, mothballed. The country has all but run out of foreign exchange and had to be bailed out by Qatar and other friendly neighbours to ensure it can still import food and fuel. There is little expectation of all-out war, and Egypt has a reputation for struggling on against the odds, but both sides seem prepared to risk the situation getting worse in order to stand on their principles.