Inside the ramshackle encampment hurriedly erected to defend his honour and democratic legitimacy Sadek Said Sadek, 36, a French teacher and Muslim Brotherhood member, voiced a frequent refrain of an army of followers who have gathered here in a spot not far from where an Islamist army officer murdered Anwar Sadat, the late Egyptian president, more than 30 years ago. So seriously were the Brotherhood's self-styled security apparatus taking the threat that a brick wall was rapidly constructed by men in hard hats on the edge of the community on Thursday afternoon to stop military and police vehicles from driving in. Amid the preparations, the sense of grievance among Brotherhood members reached new heights as Mr Morsi's overthrow was followed by news of the arrests of around half of the movement's leading functionaries. No one here was buying the line that the Egyptian military's latest foray into politics was a self-sacrificing act aimed at saving the country and the 2011 revolution that toppled the former dictator, Hosni Mubarak. It's a military coup so we think it has no legitimacy, said Jihad al-Haddad, the British-educated foreign media spokesman for the Freedom and Justice party, the Brotherhood's political wing. It's the worst kind of bullying. What's happening here is that we are a punchbag for the police and the military. We've been at it for 86 years and never as much as thrown a stone at a policeman who came to arrest us. That last statement crystallised the movement's sense of victimhood, and a commitment to non-violence voiced by many leading Brotherhood members ? large numbers of whom are educated as teachers and engineers. Having come from all over Egypt, including from more rural settings than heavily urbanised metropolitan Cairo, they vowed to stay in camp until Mr Morsi was legally reinstated. Their worthy non-violence seemed a marked departure ? and welcome relief ? from the warnings of civil war expressed last week by the Al-Azhar Institution, Egypt's leading Islamic cleric institution, in the run-up to Mr Morsi's ousting. Yet beneath the surface, stirrings of a less passive discontent were evident. Same Ahmad, 30, one of several qualified engineers to speak eloquently in English, sounded an ominous warning, saying many Brotherhood supporters had fighting experience . I have a message for the army; it's our army not al-Sisi's army, he said, referring to Abdul-Fattah al-Sisi, the defence minister, who orchestrated the intervention that led to Mr Morsi's removal. Our leadership are restraining us while they have a discussion with themselves. Many of our young men have fighting experience in Kosovo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Chechnya and other places. Asked how the Brotherhood could rein in more militantly-inclined supporters, Mr al-Haddad replied: We can only control the conduct of the Muslim Brotherhood itself and its members. We have a high level of discipline and are a non-violent organisation but we have a lot of sympathetically-minded organisations around us who are saying democracy has failed and we told you so. We are not coming up with good arguments to reply to them. Certainly, Mr Morsi's removal by non-democratic means after having won an election widely viewed as free and fair seemed to have shaken the faith of some in the usefulness of future electoral engagement. We built new institutions, they [the opposition] have destroyed everything, said Mohammed el-Ziedy, 43, yet another engineer, You cannot imagine that the current regime will allow the Muslim Brotherhood to participate in any future political process. Hand in hand with the sense of righteous victimhood, lurked another sentiment not unfamiliar in the Middle East ? suspicion of conspiracy by a foreign hand. It's a conspiracy, shouted one man, holding one of the ubiquitous posters of Mr Morsi. Some Brotherhood members were in little doubt where the source of such machinations lay. Really we don't trust these people at all, their policies are very bad against the Muslim people, said Mohamed Salah, 41. Asked if he believed the US and Israel had been involved in the demonstrations against Mr Morsi, he answer was unequivocal. Exactly, 100 per cent.