Uniformed officers and troops were deployed both inside and outside the offices of state televison on the banks of River Nile. The troops' arrival coincided with the expiry of the 48-hour deadline issued by the military to both government and opposition leaders to agree a new roadmap for the country's future. The military's governing body, the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, known as SCAF, had warned that if no agreement was reached by around 4pm Egyptian time 3pm UK time , then it would intervene and impose its own solution. Such a move would effectively mark a return to the interim military government that SCAF ran following the fall of President Hosni Mubarak in 2011. The imposition of the deadline has given a dramatic d?nouement to the recent days of protests, which have pitted secular anti-government protesters against defenders of the Islamist-dominated regime of Mr Morsi. His supporters have vowed to resist what they call a coup against democracy, and have also taken to the streets by the tens of thousands. At least 39 people have been killed in clashes since Sunday, raising fears the crisis could further explode into violence State television is run by the information minister, a Muslim Brotherhood member put in the post by Mr Morsi, and its coverage has largely been in favour of the government. But already in the past two days, the coverage saw a marked shift, with more balanced reporting showing the anti-Morsi protests along with pro-Morsi ones. State radio has seen a similar shift. The authoritative, state-run Al-Ahram newspaper - which also seemed to be following a military line - reported that the military had placed several leaders of Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood under surveillance and issued a foreign travel ban on the Islamist group's top leaders. On Wednesday, the head of the army, defense minister General Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi, also held meeting with opposition leader Mohammed ElBaradei and senior religious leaders from Egypt's Muslim and Coptic Christian communities. Under a plan leaked to state media, the military would install a new interim leadership, with the Islamist-backed constitution suspended and the Islamist-dominated parliament dissolved. So far Mr Morsi has remained defiant. In a speech late on Tuesday night, he vowed not to step down, although this afternoon there were unconfirmed reports that he was considering a consensus government. The army has insisted it has no intention to take power. But the reported road map showed it was ready to replace Morsi and make a sweeping change in the political structures that have evolved since Mr Mubarak's fall in February 2011. Secularists claim that Mr Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood party is intent on turning Egypt into an Islamic state, accusations that the Brotherhood deny.