Power blackouts caused by gas shortages have fuelled the discontent in Egypt since the Arab Spring led to the downfall of Hosni Mubarak in 2011. The country has been reining in exports of liquefied natural gas as it struggles to meet soaring domestic demand. Last month Qatar gave Egypt five liquefied natural gas LNG cargoes to help meet its shortages. As Egypt lacks LNG import facilities, the construction of which has been delayed in the turmoil after the revolution, the Qatari cargoes were used to meet the export commitments of international oil companies, including BG Group. In return, the companies supplied an equivalent volume of gas to the domestic market. BG Group is particularly exposed to Egypt, which was its largest producing country in 2012, accounting for 20pc of its total output. The country is one of BG?s two main sources of LNG cargoes and contributes an estimated 18pc of its net income, Peter Hutton, analyst at RBC Capital Markets, calculated. However, he suggested it unlikely that BG Group would have to shut in all production given that Egypt needs the gas. Egypt has been delaying payments to foreign oil companies for the oil and gas they produce. It now owes at least $5bn to foreign oil companies, half of which is overdue, according to reports. Companies have however insisted their commitment to Egypt is undiminished. BP, jointly with RWE, is investing $13bn in the West Nile Delta gas project. BP said: ?As a precautionary measure, we will be withdrawing a number of non-essential expatriate staff, contractors and families on a temporary basis. Around 40 essential expatriate staff remain and our office in Cairo is open. We do not expect any impact on production from our joint venture operations. BP remains fully committed to Egypt and intends to return staff as soon as possible.? A spokesman for BG Group said: ?Safety and security of our people is paramount. Everyone is safe and accounted for. Operations continue unaffected by events. We are monitoring the situation very closely.? Sources suggested other oil companies were likely to have taken similar action, although it is not thought that Royal Dutch Shell had done so as of the end of last week. A Shell spokesman said: The safety and security of our staff is our top priority. We don?t comment on specific security issues but we are following the situation in Egypt closely.