He singled out the Grand Iman of Al-Azhar University and the Pope of the Coptic Christian church, a provocative move in light of the country?s rising sectarian tensions. ?Millions will remain in the squares until we carry our elected president, Mohamed Morsi, on our shoulders,? he told a cheering crowd. ?We are his soldiers and we defend him with our lives.? He said he would not be deterred ?by threats or detentions, or the gallows?. He urged soldiers to obey their supreme commander ? President Morsi ? rather than the defence minister, Gen Abdulfattah al-Sisi. One of the most dramatic incidents of the day took place in front of the Republican Guard headquarters, near the main Brotherhood encampment at Rabaa al-Adawiya mosque. Mr Morsi is thought to have been working there when he was detained, and it has become a focus of Brotherhood protests. A member of the Egyptian Army secures the barbed wire outside the Republican Guard HQ. MOHAMED EL-SHAHED/AFP Marchers came up to the barbed wire barriers in defiance of orders not to do so, and were fired on when they repeatedly tried to place a poster of Mr Morsi on them. An army spokesman later said only blanks were used, but the BBC correspondent, Jeremy Bowen, was hit with birdshot, and there were a large number of injuries. At least one body was filmed being carried away, and the Muslim Brotherhood?s Freedom and Justice Party reported five dead. A military attack helcopter flies over protesters outside the Presidential Palace in Cairo. HASSAN AMAR/AP Elsewhere, 12 people were killed in clashes in the city of Alexandria. As the day progressed, attack helicopters flew low over both pro- and anti-Morsi rallies in a show of strength. However, there was little security in front of some of the most sensitive areas, including Tahrir Square where anti-Morsi crowds continued to celebrate his downfall. A second mass Brotherhood rally began from Cairo University, scene of the highest death toll of any battle in the last week when 18 were killed after a march came under attack on Tuesday night. After it crossed the October 6 bridge between Tahrir Square and the state television station, Brotherhood leaders ordered it to head to join up with the Rabaa al-Adawiya protest. But a large group of younger protesters headed to Tahrir Square, throwing stones, and shots were fired. We should go to Tahrir Square, said Mosaad Abdulghani. What was taken by force should be taken back by force. Thousands on either side clashed behind the National Museum, home to some of the world's greatest treasures, and on the ramps to the bridge. An anti-Morsi protester is attended to by friends after he was allegedly shot in Tahrir Square Friday night. SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES Both sides used fireworks as weapons, shooting them directly at each other. At least two people were killed. After an hour, the anti-Morsi crowd, reinforced from Tahrir Square, were able to drive the Muslim Brotherhood supporters away. The army, who had been waiting near the next bridge along the Nile, then drove over the October 6 bridge in a show of strength. The clashes in Cairo bore out fears that the Muslim Brotherhood would not give up quietly after Mr Morsi was deposed. The army was also in no mood to compromise, blocking earlier rallies. The interim president, chief justice Adly Mansour, announced the dissolution of the Shura, or upper house of parliament, the last Islamist-dominated government institution. In other parts of the country, police stations and government buildings came under attack from Brotherhood protesters. In the north Sinai town of El-Arish, two policemen were killed when the building they were guarding came under fire from men on a motorbike. Sinai has become a hotbed for militant jihadist groups, some tied to al-Qaeda, since the 2011 revolution which overthrew ex-President Hosni Mubarak. Overnight, there were coordinated attacks with rockets, rocket-propelled grenades and anti-aircraft guns on El-Arish airport, in which a soldier was killed, and a security base at Rafah on the border with Gaza. The army later hit back with helicopters, and declared the border crossing closed, but clashes continued. Late in the day, it was reported that pro-Morsi protesters had seized control of the governor's building.