Earlier, senior members of the Brotherhood were threatening that there would be a bloodbath if the army pressed ahead with its plans. ?There have already been 16 killed in the last two days of protests ,? Essam el-Erian, a member of the Brotherhoods ruling Guidance Council, told The Daily Telegraph. ?If they want to continue with this plan, there will be far more victims because this will be the victims confronting the people. Mr Morsi on Tuesday issued his first formal response to the army ultimatum, which gave him until Wednesday afternoon to find a solution to the political impasse which has crippled the country. A statement said he would not allow Egypt to return to the past . We have chosen democracy as our mechanism, and it is the only safe way to manage our different visions for the future, it said. The presidency confirms that it is continuing on its previously plotted path to promote comprehensive national reconciliation, regardless of any statements that deepen divisions between citizens. But the opposition scented victory. Liberal, leftist and secular parties, figures associated with the former regime of ex-President Hosni Mubarak, and street protest movements including Tamarod, or Rebellion , which organised the biggest marches in Egypt's history on Sunday, were preparing their platforms for the new inclusive government. The military's political road map unveiled to the media on Tuesday afternoon met all their principal demands ? fresh elections, a new constitution, an interim ruling council and an end to Islamist domination of power. The major arms of the opposition movement appointed Mohammed Elbaradei, the former head of the United Nations atomic energy agency who has been a voluble spokesman for the revolutionary cause but repeatedly refused to run for office, as its chief spokesman for the presumed transition. Politicians rejected accusations that they were fronts for the Mubarak regime, as alleged by Brotherhood leaders. They said they were fighting the gradual but forceful imposition of the Brotherhood's agenda on Egyptian society, particularly since Mr Morsi forced through a new, heavily Islamist constitution in November. Mohammed Abou El-Ghar, the head of the Egyptian Social Democratic Party, said: Our goal is not to govern Egypt, not to control Egypt but to open the door for a new presidential election, which is a normal thing after a new constitution, and to prevent fascist power from taking over the country. He said he had no worries the protest movement was ushering in another dictatorship. I'm sure that the army does not want to rule Egypt, he said. Mr Morsi's power base was reduced dramatically during the day, as six ministers resigned. He also lost his prosecutor general, whose appointment was deemed unconstitutional by the supreme court in a coincidental ruling. It was not clear what compromise he could be offering to Gen Abdulfattah al-Sisi, the defence minister and head of the army, at their continuing crisis meeting last night. The opposition say they will accept nothing short of his removal from office. The president's advisers have not said how they intend to resist the army's ultimatum. Islamist movements have promised that they will stick to non-violence, but the Brotherhood has been parading volunteers in quasi-military style at recent counter-demonstrations, and also made a show of its close relationship to the Gamaa Islamiya, a militant group responsible for some of Egypt's worst terrorist outrages which has since renounced violence. Brotherhood and Gamaa Islamiya leaders appeared together at a rally of supporters on Monday night to denounce the military's actions. Mr Morsi believes he has the United States, Egypt?s main backer, on his side. He spoke on Monday night to President Barack Obama, who said he was committed to the ?democratic process?. But Mr Obama also told him that democracy was about ?more than elections?, and that he had to listen to the voices of protesters gathering in huge numbers around the country. The Foreign Office has warned Britons against all but essential travel to most of Egypt, apart from a few holiday resorts. While the government stopped short of recommending immediate departure for any UK citizens already in the country, the advice was that anyone in Egypt should consider whether they have a pressing need to remain.