By David Williams and James Rush and Simon Tomlinson Published: 12:31 EST, 3 July 2013 | Updated: 19:00 EST, 4 July 2013 Egypt's generals face their first big test today when supporters of ousted Mohamed Morsi pour on to the streets after Friday prayers to protest against the army-led coup. Social networking sites and mosques are being used to rally support for the democratically elected president who has been put under house arrest. An Islamist coalition led by the Muslim Brotherhood appealed to Egyptians to demonstrate in a ?Friday of Rejection? against the coup. Arrest warrants for more than 300 members of the Brotherhood and their close allies were issued by the military yesterday while tanks and armoured vehicles were in place at strategic points across Cairo and other major cities. Mohammed Badie, the supreme leader of the movement, was arrested near the Libyan border. Judicial sources said Badie, and his deputy Khairat el-Shater, who were seen as the drivers of the Islamist agenda followed by Mr Morsi, have been charged with inciting violence against protesters outside the Brotherhood?s ransacked HQ in Cairo. SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEOS Celebrations marking Mr Morsi?s overthrow continued yesterday although numbers were reduced from the millions who greeted news of the coup on Wednesday night. Jubilant protesters chanted ?No More Beards? yesterday ? a reference to the facial hair favoured by Islamists and the Brotherhood. There are fears of a violent backlash from Islamists, particularly from hard-liners, some of whom once belonged to armed groups. Clashes between Islamists and police erupted after the army?s announcement of Mr Morsi?s removal from power. At least nine died. Egypt?s interim leader, Adli Mansour, used his inauguration to hold out an olive branch to the Brotherhood and promised elections ? without indicating when they would be. ?The Muslim Brotherhood are part of this people and are invited to participate in building the nation as nobody will be excluded, and if they respond to the invitation, they will be welcomed,? said the senior judge. Promising to safeguard ?the spirit of the revolution? that removed Hosni Mubarak from power in 2011, he said he would ?put an end to the idea of worshipping the leader?. Elections would be held based on ?the genuine people?s will, not a fraudulent one,? he added. ?This is the only way for a brighter future, a freer future, a more democratic one.? UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon appealed for calm and restraint, as well as the preservation of rights such as freedom of expression and assembly. ?Many Egyptians in their protests have voiced deep frustrations and legitimate concerns,? he said in a statement that did not condemn the move against Mr Morsi. ?At the same time, military interference in the affairs of any state is of concern,? he said. ?Therefore, it will be crucial to quickly reinforce civilian rule in accordance with principles of democracy.? Mr Morsi?s dramatic removal by the military after a year in office marked another twist in the turmoil that has gripped the Arab world?s most populous country in the two years since the fall of Mubarak. The Brotherhood has been quick to reject participation in the new regime and a senior politician, Essam El-Erian, said the movement would take a long view of the political setback. Writing on Facebook, he said ?waves of sympathy? for the Brotherhood would rise gradually over time. ?The end of the coup will come faster than you imagine,? he added. ?We refuse to participate in any activities with the usurping authorities.? Mohamed El-Beltagy, a senior Brotherhood politician, said the movement was unlikely to take up arms but warned that other, unnamed, groups could be pushed to violent resistance. Standing guard: Members of the Egyptian military at a roadblock in the Cairo district of Giza the morning after President Mohamed Morsi was ousted from power New era: A family walks to Tahrir Square the morning as President Morsi is placed under house arrest after being removed from office by the military The Brotherhood?s television station, Misr 25, has been taken off the air along with several networks run by Islamists. Mr Morsi?s critics have long accused the stations of sowing divisions among Egyptians and inciting hatred of secularists, liberals, Christians and Shiite Muslims.