By Ian Drury for the Daily Mail Published: 13:44 EST, 2 July 2013 | Updated: 19:25 EST, 2 July 2013 An SAS sniper put the public at risk by illegally stashing a handgun and more than 300 bullets at his rented home, a court heard yesterday. Sergeant Danny Nightingale, a Special Forces soldier who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, knew he was in the wrong by storing the war trophy and ammunition in his bedroom, prosecutors said. Last November Nightingale, 38, was jailed for 18 months after pleading guilty to possessing the pistol. Three weeks later his sentence was reduced to 12 months, suspended for a year, by the Court of Appeal and he was released. In March, the same court quashed his conviction and ordered a retrial. Timothy Cray, prosecuting, told the new trial yesterday that the soldier had no excuse for possessing the deadly items, which were discovered in a September 2011 police raid. He added: ?No soldier, no matter what his experience is or what unit he is attached to, is above the law.? During police interviews after his arrest, Nightingale made ?full admissions? to having the weapons, the court martial at Bulford, Wiltshire, was told. But the father of two will tell the trial his confession was unreliable because he suffered brain injuries affecting his memory when he collapsed on a charity trek in the Brazilian jungle. He will argue the haul could have been hidden by his ex-housemate and comrade, known only as Soldier N. Mr Cray said Nightingale?s claim of memory difficulties was ?wholly inconsistent and untrue? as he had subsequently been passed fit to redeploy on SAS operations. Mr Cray told the hearing Nightingale?s claim the arsenal could have been planted by somebody else differed from his original statement that the pistol was a ?trophy? from Iraq. He added: ?Is the claim of memory loss the truth or a lie told to try to avoid the consequences of the truth?? Nightingale, of Crewe, denies charges of possessing a prohibited firearm and ammunition. The court martial continues. Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.