CAIRO ? The sudden announcement from Egypt's military that it will intervene in Egypt's political crisis if it is not resolved by Wednesday has all of Egypt waiting to see what will happen next. The question on the minds of both backers and opponents of the government of President Mohammed Morsi is where exactly will Defense Minister Abdel Fattah al-Sisi come down. Sarah Ahmed, 31, believes the military has to intervene after the 48-hour ultimatum. Otherwise there will be a constant struggle between pro-Morsi people and people who are against Morsi, she said. As throngs of protesters descended on Tahrir Square for more demonstrations Tuesday, protester Khaled Mohammad, 42, said al-Sisi is a real man, because he can take decisions. Al-Sisi, 58, is a longtime military man picked by Morsi to replace a crony of his ousted predecessor as chairman of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces. But the two are now at loggerheads: Al-Sisi apparently insists the military has the right to straighten things out while Morsi views the announcement as a usurpation of the Egypt's democracy. Al-Sisi's selection as head of the military in August 2012 was seen by Morsi's supporters as a way for their newly elected president to gain influence over a military that had a strong hand in governing Egypt for decades. Prior to the 2011 revolution that led to Morsi's election, Egypt was ruled by ousted former Air Force commander Hosni Mubarak. Before that, the country was ruled by other former military leaders going back to 1956. Al-Sisi served under Mubarak as a military attach? in Saudi Arabia and was named chief of staff to the then commander of the Northern Military Zone of Egypt, which is located in Alexandria. He was later named head of military intelligence. He had no combat experience. During protests following Mubarak's ouster al-Sisi was caught in controversy over virginity tests that were given to female protesters. Al-Sisi told Amnesty International that the tests were carried out to protect the army from possible rape allegations but vowed to ban the practice, Amnesty said. The only military officer charged for giving the tests was later acquitted. After Mubarak was forced out in February 2011 the country was run for 16 months by the Supreme Council headed then by Mohamed Hussein Tantawi Soliman, who oversaw the formation of an electoral process in which Morsi was elected. Inaugurated in June 2012. Morsi ordered Tantawi to retire in August to make way for al-Sisi. Morsi, who comes from the Muslim Brotherhood that the military had a hand in repressing for years, had issued a constitutional decree that forced top generals into retirement and gave the president executive and legislative powers. I'm worried what will happen next, said Samia Raouf, who came to the square with her friend. Our previous experience with the military wasn't that good. But for now, anything is better than the Muslim Brotherhood. Several miles from Tahrir Square, thousands of pro-Morsi supporters Tuesday remained adamant that Morsi should keep his post, claiming he has legitimacy because he was democratically elected. Al-Sisi has ties to the U.S. military; most of Egypt's military leaders do as well. Though the 500,000-strong military does not run the country of 80 million it controls aspects of its economy such as certain banks and industries. Al-Sisi's announcement Monday that the military will provide a roadmap for Egypt's political future if Morsi does not solve the crisis was met with cheers from Morsi's largely secular opponents who are not members of the Brotherhood. On that day the military flew helicopters bearing the Egyptian flag over the protests in Tahrir Square. Michael Wahid Hanna, a senior fellow at The Century Foundation, said he doesn't think the current situation will continue past the 48-hour deadline. I don't know that the military can afford to let it drag on, Hanna said. Once their credibility is on the line we have to assume that come 48 hours, they are going to usher in their transition plan if there's no agreement on the table. Flags flew high as crowds erupted in jubilation every time a military helicopter rumbled across the sky above, propelling chants below. The army and the people are one hand! people yelled in displays of unity with the military. Many opposition protesters are not focusing on al-Sisi but rather praising the entire military establishment. The military said on its Facebook page that is has no intention of pulling off a coup. On Wednesday the country will find out. I love the military at the moment, said Manar Attia, 22, carrying an Egyptian flag. They are our savior. They are the only good thing that can rule our country now.