By Steve Nolan Published: 12:47 EST, 24 July 2013 | Updated: 11:17 EST, 25 July 2013 It was a name that was touted as one of the clear favourites by bookmakers and given the history of the monarchy - and in particular the House of Windsor - the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge naming their son George should come as no surprise. Sharing a name with his great great grandfather - the Queen's father George VI - the newest addition to the royal family follows in a long tradition by taking the name George. But the Duke and Duchess insist that the newborn is not named after the current Queen's father and say that they simply like the name. His full name - Prince George Alexander Louis - he will be the third George from the House of Windsor to take the throne should he keep the name when he eventually takes the crown. Scroll down for video The name - which originates from a Greek word - means farmer or earth worker and was the 12th most popular name for boys born in the UK in 2011 with 4,347 born. It had been thought that Prince William and Catherine would take a few days longer to come up with a name after the pair said that they were still 'working on it' on the steps of the Lindo Wing on Tuesday night. It took seven days before Prince William's name was announced in 1982. But the announcement came sooner than expected with all three names chosen having royal connotations. The couple are said to have already had a few names in mind and sources say they had decided before they introduced the future king to his great grandmother the Queen yesterday morning. Though she has no official say, it is thought the couple discussed their choice with the Queen in a 30 minute meeting.? The name George has become almost synonymous with the British crown since the first King George took the throne back in 1714. Since then, six other Georges have ruled over the British Empire, with the most recent, King George VI, dying on the throne as recently as 1952. The name has provided some of the most memorable monarchs and continues a clear family line. Queen Elizabeth's father was proceeded, with a brief interluding reign of Edward VIII, by George V who ruled from 1910 to 1936. The name Alexander will prove particularly popular in Scotland, where Alexander III was regarded as one of the country's greatest rulers. The name Louis is likely to have been chosen in honour of Lord Mountbatten, the Duke of Edinburgh's late uncle, who was killed by the IRA in 1979. The first name of the last King George - George VI - was actually Albert and he was known to his family as 'Bertie', but he selected George - his fourth name - to use as Sovereign. He was the much-loved father of the present Queen and the new Prince George of Cambridge's great-great grandfather.? George VI chose George in honour of his father George V and to create the impression of stability after the scandal caused by the abdication of his brother Edward VIII. George is also the fourth name of the Prince of Wales - the baby's grandfather. Even Edward VIII had George among his seven names. As well as the Monarchy, the name has also become strongly associated with England, as St George is its patron saint and the name of the country's flag. St George, a fourth-century Christian martyr represents honour, bravery and gallantry. The legend of George slaying a dragon and rescuing an innocent maiden is medieval. Despite the baby's parents insisting that they simply like the name George and have not given the child the name in honour of the Queen's father, royal historians still say that the name will give Her Majesty 'great pleasure'. Historian and royal biographer Robert Lacey said: 'George is obviously a tribute to the Queen's father and will, I imagine, give Her Majesty great pleasure. 'But even as we say that we have to remember that her father's actual name was Albert or Bertie - he chose the name George. We may find that Prince George could decide to give himself a different name as king. 'George was a natural favourite to judge from the bookmakers. They will have lost a lot of money, I think. 'George was the favourite name from the start and so in that sense the Duke and Duchess reflected a popular trend. 'I think Prince William said he wanted to get to know him before they chose the name so they must feel he is a George.' BBC royal correspondent Peter Hunt had asked Prince William whether the couple would name the child George, but was told to 'wait and see' on Tuesday. There has only been one other Prince of Cambridge and he was also called George - but it is unlikely that the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will want their son to emulate his behaviour. The first Prince George of Cambridge was a grandson of George III and the only son of Prince Adolphus Frederick, the 1st Duke of Cambridge. Prince George of Cambridge was born in 1819 and refused to have an arranged marriage. He wed a commoner for love after falling for the actress Sarah Louisa Fairbrother, who was said to be a classic beauty and a graceful dancer. They married in 1847 when she was already the mother of two of his children and pregnant with his third. But the Duke did not seek the sovereign's approval and the marriage was never recognised, hence his children were not eligible to inherit royal titles. Miss Fairbrother, who generated much scandal including having a portrait painted in which she showed off her bare legs, was ostracised by the royal family and never given a title. Instead, she became known by the nickname Mrs FitzGeorge and this surname was taken by George's offspring. Despite his marriage, George had a wandering eye and soon after he wed he took up with mistress Louisa Beauclerk, who remained his lover for more than 30 years. He went on to become the 2nd Duke of Cambridge after his father's death. The Duke was in the Army and served in the Crimean War. He was promoted to Commander-in-Chief in 1887 and an equestrian statue of him stands in the middle of London's Whitehall. He was said to have been a disciplinarian, who believed Army promotions should be based on social connections rather than ability. He died in 1904. His father, the 1st Duke of Cambridge - who lived from 1774 to 1850 - was never a Prince of Cambridge, but was given the title the Duke of Cambridge by his father George III in 1801 when he was 27. Nottingham Trent University social historian Dr Judith Rowbotham speculated: ?Royal advisers are likely to point out that the 19th century Prince George of Cambridge was not exactly a model that Kate and William would wish the new prince to emulate. 'He was not popular with his cousin Queen Victoria, especially after he married an actress who was the mother of four children by three different fathers.? As well as being the fourth name of the Prince of Wales, George has been the name of some of the monarchy's most interesting kings. The first King George, the first Hanoverian king who took the throne in 1714, faced a rebellion from the Jacobites in his first year on the throne. And he remained unpopular throughout his reign, partly because of his inability to speak English, and partly because of the greed of his mistresses and his treatment of his wife. Of course, George III became famed for his apparent madness. Of the more recent King Georges, George V who reigned from 1910, was on the throne throughout the First World War. With anti-German feeling running high, he changed his family name from Saxe-Coburg-Gotha popularly known as Brunswick or Hanover to Windsor in 1917. He started the tradition of the Royal Christmas broadcast and died of pleurisy in 1936. George V famously predicted that his eldest son and successor, Edward, who became Edward VIII would 'ruin himself within twelve months' after taking the crown. His reign lasted a little more than 11 months when he abdicated and was succeeded by his brother George VI. George VI led the nation through the Second World War, remaining at Buckingham Palace for much of it even though the building was bombed nine times during German air raids. He introduced the George Cross and George Medal for acts of bravery. George VI was immortalised in the Oscar winning 2010 film The King's Speech, starring Colin Firth, which focused on the king's battle to overcome a speech impediment in order to broadcast the outbreak of World War Two. Like George, the name Alexander comes from ancient Greek, meaning 'defending men' or 'protector of men'. The names popularity originated because of Alexander the Great. But to date there has never been a King Alexander to rule over the entire British empire. Scotland had Alexander III, who ruled from 1241 to 1286 and is regarded as one of the nation's greatest rulers. He became king at the age of seven and went on to marry Margaret, daughter of Henry III of England. He laid claim to the Western Isles in 1262, then ruled by Norway and defeated King Haakon of Norway's army at the Battle of Largs in 1263. He died in 1286 after falling from his horse. The child's third name, Louis, does have a more recent royal connection however. It is thought that the name may be a tribute to Lord Louis Mountbatten, the Duke of Edinburgh's uncle. Lord Mountbatten, the last Viceroy of India and a former Chief of the Defence Staff, was killed when his boat was blown up by the IRA in 1979. Mountbatten traditionally holidayed with his family in County Sligo, and was aboard his boat Shadow V when it exploded shortly after setting off from the fishing village of Mullaghmore. He was pulled from the water, but his legs were almost severed and he died shortly afterward. Lord Mountbatten, a second cousin of the Queen, was given a full state funeral. The name Louis is also the fourth name of Prince William himself.