By Robert Hardman for the Daily Mail Published: 18:56 EST, 24 July 2013 | Updated: 08:26 EST, 25 July 2013 Traditional, loyal, respectful but with a modern touch. That certainly sums up the choice of George Alexander Louis. But it is also a pretty good description of the parents who chose these names. In doing so, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have told us rather more about themselves than their two-day-old Prince. Scroll down for video It goes without saying that the couple genuinely like these names. No one has forced or even prodded them. These are precisely the sort of names you might hear over the font at any of the christenings of any of the progeny of any of all those marriages which the couple have attended in recent years. All are firm favourites in the current aristo/Sloane canon of boys? names. But they also have the advantage of being socially imprecise. None automatically denotes poshness. None is going to get the John Prescotts of this world instantly bristling in the way that, say, a Rupert, Tristram or Orlando might. Though none comes as a great surprise, each is still interesting. For royal names come loaded with significance, however much officials may insist that they have just been picked ?because the couple liked them?. And none stands out more than Alexander. It is said that this was a particular favourite of the Duchess. Since history, precedence and Prince William?s position were always going to weigh heavily on the choice of first name, she could have a greater say over the second. And among the couple?s circle of friends, there are plenty of Alexanders ? usually shortened to ?Al? or the more urbane ?Xan?. Few get called ?Sandy? these days. Alexandra had certainly been the bookies? favourite in the event of a girl. For the female version has a long and illustrious provenance.?? Queen Alexandra was the consort of Edward VII. It is also the second name of our Queen. Less well-known is the fact that Alexandrina was Queen Victoria?s first name. Until her reign, monarchs would stick with the name they were given at birth. But she preferred Victoria, her second name, having been called it from birth by her mother, also Victoria. Otherwise, we would never have ended up with the Victorian age. Today, we would talk about Alexandrine or Alexandrinian? values, Alexandrine architecture, eminent Alexandrines?.?.?. it doesn?t exactly trip off the tongue. As a boy?s name, the royal connections are less obvious. The nearest Alexander is Prince William?s low-profile cousin, the Earl of Ulster, 38-year-old ex-soldier and heir to the Duke of Gloucester. Going further back, the Queen?s great-great-grandfather ? via Queen Mary ? was Duke Alexander of Wurrtemburg. But the choice becomes much more significant in a geo-political context. In theory, the baby Prince will inherit the Throne of the United Kingdom, though that unity is under threat as never before with next year?s referendum on Scottish independence. Scotland means a huge amount to the Royal Family ? far more than is generally imagined. It was also in Scotland that the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge met. So a Scottish name was not merely a possibility but more of an essential. And Scotland has had three King Alexanders. Even the craziest Caledonian conspiracy theorist would not suggest that the choice of this particular Scottish name was a sop to the architect of next year?s referendum, one Alexander Eliott Anderson Salmond. But it serves as a reminder that the Royal Family don?t wear kilts and listen to bagpipes because they have to. They do it because they are as Scottish as they are anything else. As for Louis, that is surely a bow to both the baby?s grandfather and great-grandfather. Prince William himself was given the name Louis in honour of Prince Charles?s adored uncle, Lord Louis later Earl Mountbatten. He, in turn, had been named after Prince Louis of Battenberg, Prince Philip?s grandfather. Then we come to George. This child will never need any additional introduction. We now live in a world which increasingly operates on first-name terms. The Royal Family may not have gone down the ?Call me Tony? route but, to much of the world, they are simply Charles, Camilla, William, Kate, Harry?.?.?. Even our best-known Georges ? Osborne, Michael, Clooney etc ? still need a surname. George Cambridge never will. There can be little doubt whom the young couple had uppermost in their minds when they were picking this one. George V, founder of the House of Windsor, was the Queen?s adored ?Grandpa England?. George VI was the beloved father in whose image she has shaped so much of her reign. Her inscrutability on most things is one of her great strengths. Even so, I think we can assume that she flies off to Scotland tomorrow even more proud and happy that Britain can now look forward to George VII.