By Louise Saunders Published: 15:23 EST, 24 July 2013 | Updated: 02:34 EST, 25 July 2013 It was the moment the world had been waiting for when the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge revealed their firstborn son, and third in line to the throne, would be named Prince George Alexander Louis. And it would appear the royal baby name went down a storm with the great and good of the showbiz world, with a number of celebrities taking to their Twitter pages to express their delight at the regal moniker. Amanda Holden was leading the way, joking that the Alexander Louis portion of the name was very similar to that of her daughter, Alexa 'Lexi' Louise. And the Britain's Got Talent judge joked that her younger daughter, Hollie Rose Hughes, bears the initials HRH, giving her family a very royal seal of approval. She wrote: 'I love the name!and! Alexander Louis the male version of Alexa Louise! My Lexi! So with that AND my HRH I feel a hat coming in 25 years!' Danielle O'Hara also boasted about her regal connections, with the WAG having previously revealed that she too was planning on naming her third son George later this year. She tweeted: 'Awwww. Kate picked a great name so regal looks like we will have boys born in the same year with the same name!!xx' Ben Fogle, whose sister was giving birth in the same hospital of Duchess Catherine, paid reference to his new nephew, writing: 'George #royalbaby Jack #theotherbaby.' Model of the moment Cara Delevingne seemed to have already predicted the name of the royal baby, tweeting on July 22: 'The royal baby should be called George!! If i get it right I win a pint .' Meanwhile, TOWIE's Lucy Mecklenburgh seemed to have similarly psychic powers: 'OMG I guessed the #royalbaby name right!! .. Wish I had put a bet on it now!x #BabyGeorge.' Spice Girls singer Emma Bunton added: 'Prince George Alexander Louis, love it!' While US chat show host Ellen DeGeneres said from across the pond: 'It's Cousins Day! I'd like to send a shout-out to my cousin, Kate Middleton, and my baby cousin George! Hi from America!' Fellow talk show presenter Carson Daly added: 'Prince William and his wife, Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, name their baby George Alexander Louis.' After a tense 50-hour wait, William and Catherine announced the name of their firstborn child on Wednesday evening via a short statement from Kensington Palace. The statement read: 'The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are delighted to announce that they have named their son George Alexander Louis. The baby will be known as His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge.' By naming their son George - which is synonymous with British kings - it looks like the couple followed tradition but royal sources say the baby's names are not supposed to be symbolic. The name George - chosen for the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's baby son - is synonymous with British kings. It has come to represent the continuity of the monarchy and remained the bookmakers' favourite in the name-guessing stakes from the moment Kate's pregnancy was announced. Six King Georges have worn the crown throughout history since the German-born George I, the first Hanoverian king of Great Britain, acceded to the throne in 1714. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge took much less time to name their son than Prince Charles and Diana when William arrived in 1982. They took seven days to decide what to call him, while the Queen took a month to name Prince Charles when he was born in 1948. Hundreds of thousands of pounds were staked on the possibilities of the names. George and James were the favourites at the bookies, after Alexander, Henry, Louis, Richard and Arthur were the next most betted-on choices.