By CaTherine Ostler for The Mail on Sunday Published: 18:28 EST, 25 July 2013 | Updated: 05:06 EST, 26 July 2013 A baby inflicts seismic changes on its parents? social life, as the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are about to discover. Out go the single, party-animal, club-owning types that?s you, Guy Pelly and in come experienced, married sorts who can answer all those questions that beset new parents. Some of Kate and William?s sensible married friends will desperately be hoping to be godparents to the future monarch. And if precedent is anything to go by, there will be a number of vacancies. Princes William and Harry had six each ? three godfathers and three godmothers ? so we can expect the same for Prince George. Royal godparents often include one or two older, mentor types alongside friends and relatives. Charles chose all of William?s godparents ? not a single friend or relative of Diana?s ? and opted for three people from his parents? generation: His mother?s friend Lady Susan Hussey, ex-King Constantine of Greece and the South African man of letters Sir Laurens van der Post. But William and Kate are more likely to choose friends from their own age group, though there will be pressure to include some royal blood since Prince George will one day wear the crown. Here we present those with a good chance of becoming godparents. And those who fail to reach that cherished status of royal godparent can at least try to ensure their children become friends of the new heir and get their playdate invitations to Kensington Palace ?.?.?. The brother and sister Pippa Middleton and Prince Harry have to be front-runners. Some think an aunt or uncle is unnecessary as a godparent ? they already have an interest in the child. But there is a recent royal precedent ? Prince Andrew is Harry?s godfather. William and Kate are closer to their siblings than to anyone else, and the bond between Kate and Pippa is especially strong. With these two, little George won?t be short of godparents with a sense of fun. And both can show off their baby-tending skills to admirers of the opposite sex. Kate?s loyal escort The son of Olympic gold medallist equestrian Richard, James Meade is a friend of William?s from his days at Eton and is so friendly with Kate that he took her to Badminton Horse Trials during ?The Split? when the couple separated for a while in 2007. Along with Thomas Van Straubenzee see below and Prince Harry, he made a speech at the Royal Wedding. Meade is engaged to Lady Laura Marsham, daughter of the Earl of?Romney. William?s best pal Estate agent/surveyor/entrepreneur Thomas Van Straubenzee, who married tennis coach ? and the Duke of Northumberland?s daughter ? Lady Melissa Percy of Alnwick Castle at the ?Royal Wedding of the North? a month ago, is William?s best and most trusted friend from Ludgrove prep school, and went to New Zealand with him on their gap year. William and Harry are patrons of a charity in memory of his brother Henry, who was killed in a car crash 11 years ago. Henry and Harry had been classmates at Ludgrove. Kate?s school chum A 6ft redhead, Alicia Fox-Pitt is a loyal pal of Kate?s from her Marlborough College days. Younger sister of Olympic eventer William, jolly Alicia is studying to be a vet. She recruited Kate for that Sisterhood rowing team, which planned to cross the Channel for charity during Kate and William?s split. Kate bowed out when she got back together with William. Alicia married entrepreneur Sebastian Stoddart last week. The Charles connection Edward, Hugh, Nicholas and William Van Cutsem are the sons of Hugh and Emilie Van Cutsem, close friends of Prince Charles. Any of these cloud-bustingly tall, dark, interchangeable, north Norfolk fellows would be suitable as a godparent. The most likely one is financier Hugh, married to Rose Astor ? their daughter, William?s goddaughter, Grace, was an adorable bridesmaid at the Royal Wedding. Or there?s brother William, a chartered surveyor by training, who married Rosie Ruck Keene, a regular of the Princes? favourite London nightspot, Mahiki. And there?s always eldest brother Ed. He is married to the Duke of Westminster?s daughter, Lady Tamara, whose mother, Tally, is William?s godmother, so his appointment would round a neat circle. Teacher who?s a toff Lady Iona Douglas-Home is daughter of the Earl of Home, whose family are old friends of the royals and on whose Scottish estate William shoots every year. Lady Iona, a primary school teacher, is married to banker the Hon Thomas Hewitt, heir to Viscount Lifford. Go for a Greek It is family tradition to throw in a Greek royal, such as the 16-year-old Princess Maria-Olympia, daughter of Crown Prince Pavlos and Princess Marie-Chantal of Greece. She would ensure a continuing bond with Prince Philip?s family his grand-father was King of Greece . The Doubles partner Alice St John Webster is a tennis pal of Kate?s from Marlborough College. She is a teacher and is married to Gerald Alvenel, a French banker at Merrill Lynch with a handy family chateau. She has an 18-month-old baby, Rose. The Buggy buddy Another Marlborough friend is Catriona ?Trini? Foyle, married to Ted. Kate accompanies Trini on buggy walks in Kensington Gardens with Alexander, 19 months. The matchmaker Sam Waley-Cohen is a Cheltenham Gold Cup-winning amateur jockey, entrepreneur behind a chain of dental practices and charity fundraiser who?s said to have helped persuade Kate and William to get back together again after their 2007 split. He and wife Bella have a baby son, Max. The ski set Harry Meade is younger brother of James see above . An Old Etonian contemporary of William?s, he is an event rider and married to? primary school teacher Rosie. They and the royal couple went on a skiing holiday earlier this year. They have a daughter, Lily, not yet two. The baby guru Her husband, Hugh, is one of the Van Cutsem brothers see above , and since Rose Van Cutsem set up Maggie & Rose, a chain of mother and baby/child clubs, she is the guru of what to do on a Kensington baby playdate. The couple?s children are Grace, five, Rafe, four, and Charlie, 19 months. The Royal cousins Princess Anne?s daughter Zara is having a baby in January, while Lord Frederick Windsor?s wife, the actress Sophie Winkleman, is due next month. Zara is based in Gloucestershire and the Windsors in LA, but the children will be playfellows at royal events. However, Zara is closer to Harry than William, and Freddie and William have never been close.