By Matt Chorley, MailOnline Political Editor Published: 07:06 EST, 17 July 2013 | Updated: 19:35 EST, 17 July 2013 Parliament's spy watchdog called for an investigation into Britain?s laws on intelligence eavesdropping yesterday as it cleared GCHQ of flouting the existing rules. The Intelligence and Security Committee ruled that the listening station in Cheltenham acted with ministerial backing when it requested electronic intercepts from the US National Security Agency?s Prism programme. But the committee raised questions about whether the rules governing intercepts are fit for purpose and whether there is a need for new laws. GCHQ faced criticism after NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden claimed that British spies used the Prism system to by-pass British laws. Mr Snowden is holed up in Moscow airport while seeking refuge in Latin America after leaking details of US government surveillance programmes. He claimed GCHQ secretly accessed fibre-optic cables carrying huge amounts of internet and communications data. Today the intelligence committee said the claims were ?unfounded?. But the ISC said it would carry out an extra review to see if rules on accessing private data are strong enough. Foreign Secretary William Hague said the report vindicated the ?professionalism and values? of Britain?s spies. It had been suggested that GCHQ used the Prism programme to circumvent British law to gain access to online communications which would be illegal in the UK. But the ISC said that, in each case where GCHQ sought information from the US, an intercept warrant signed by a minister was already in place. ?It has been alleged that GCHQ circumvented UK law by using the NSA's Prism programme to access the content of private communications. From the evidence we have seen, we have concluded that this is unfounded,? the committee said. The committee, chaired by former foreign secretary Sir Malcolm Rifkind, said it had received detailed evidence from GCHQ as well as questioning its director, Sir Iain Lobban. The material passed to it included a list of counter-terrorist operations in which GCHQ had received relevant intelligence from the US, a list of all UK nationals or individuals in the UK who were monitored through such arrangements, and a list of every ?selector? - such as email addresses - on which the request for the intelligence was based. The committee said it had also discussed the Prism progamme with the NSA and its congressional counterparts during a recent visit to the US. Mr Hague said: ?I see daily evidence of the integrity and high standards of the men and women of GCHQ. The ISC's findings are further testament to their professionalism and values. ?The Intelligence and Security Committee is a vital part of the strong framework of democratic accountability and oversight governing the use of secret intelligence in the UK. ?It will continue to have the full co-operation of the Government and the security and intelligence agencies.? While the ISC found that GCHQ had acted within the law, it expressed concern that the current legal framework for the intercept of communications was still adequate. ?In some areas the legislation is expressed in general terms and more detailed policies and procedures have, rightly, been put in place around this work by GCHQ in order to ensure compliance with their statutory obligations under the Human Rights Act 1998,? it said. ?We are therefore examining the complex interaction between the Intelligence Services Act, the Human Rights Act and the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, and the policies and procedures that underpin them further.?