By Daily Mail Reporter Published: 06:38 EST, 18 July 2013 | Updated: 06:41 EST, 18 July 2013 The Anonymous hacking group is claiming to have hacked the US Federal Emergency Management Agency servers after posting staff details online. The group said it posted the details online because 'oblique and cowardly implied threats against Anonymous very much back into the forefront of the hive's consciousness'. In a document published online Wednesday, the hacker collective revealed data that includes information on user accounts and passwords of what appear to be government employees. According to motherboard.com , the document contains email addresses and contact details for hundreds of contacts including police and fire departments, FBI special agents and a 'Bioterrorism Coordinator Chair.' Anonymous said it redacted social security numbers and login information because its 'intent is not to harm, merely to issue a firm warning,' reported the Guardian. 'Anonymous does not wave the white flag. Not while we are faced with a daily stream of abominable revelations from Edward Snowden and others, not while the battle for the very soul, the very original purpose, of the internet escalates in severity daily,' read a statement by a representative of Anonymous and obtained by GlobalPost. Anonymous said it targeted Fema because of the agency's? 2012 National Level Exercise NLE designed to prepare employees for a cyberattack - their decision to release now is due to recent revelations made by Edward Snowden, a CIA leaker. In the 2012 exercise, a fictional group called 'The Void' launches a cyberattack on US businesses and networks. It even had a fake broadcast in which former CNN correspondent Jeanne Meserve? played an anchor woman, warning that The Void could be a global threat. But Anonymous stated it sees The Void as a substitute for their organization. It took issue with the fact that The Void was painted as both inexperienced and anti-American and? said actions taken by The Void 'implicitly link financial gain and fraud to activist hackers'.? Anonymous said in a statement that it believes the exercise was used 'as part of the ongoing justifications for Prism and the other NSA spy programs'. According to motherboard the document read: ''Even in a government sponsored wargame scenario clearly aimed at brainstorming ways of thwarting Anonymous you were afraid to invoke our name, but were as subtle as a sledgehammer,' reads the document. 'Even the name you chose resonates closely with Anonymous.' Anonymous is a decentralized, loosely associated network of hacker-activists that has been credited with unmasking suspected criminals and targeting child pornography sites. Anonymous and other loosely affiliated hacking groups have taken credit for carrying out attacks against the CIA, Britain's Serious Organized Crime Agency and companies such as Japan's Sony Corp.