President Obama weighed in Sunday on the trial of George Zimmerman in the killing of Trayvon Martin, asking Americans to respect the jury?s not guilty verdict and reflect on ways the nation might curb senseless gun violence. 	?The death of Trayvon Martin was a tragedy. Not just for his family, or for any one community, but for America,? Obama said. ?I know this case has elicited strong passions. And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher. But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken.? 	?I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son. And as we do, we should ask ourselves if we?re doing all we can to widen the circle of compassion and understanding in our own communities,? Obama added. ? We should ask ourselves if we?re doing all we can to stem the tide of gun violence that claims too many lives across this country on a daily basis. We should ask ourselves, as individuals and as a society, how we can prevent future tragedies like this. As citizens, that?s a job for all of us. That?s the way to honor Trayvon Martin. 	On Saturday night, a Florida jury found George Zimmerman not guilty in the shooting death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. 	The verdict triggered a wave of outrage among civil rights activists as hundreds of protesters took to the streets in cities across the U.S. demanding justice for Martin?s family. 	Martin?s parents were not present for the verdict, but they took to social media to express their devastation. 	?Lord during my darkest hour I lean on you,? Sybrina Fulton, Martin?s mother, Tweeted. ?You are all that I have. At the end of the day, GOD is still in control. Thank you all for your prayers and support. I will love you forever Trayvon!!!? 	?Even though I am broken hearted my faith is unshattered I WILL ALWAYS LOVE MY BABY TRAY,? Martin?s father, Tracy, tweeted. 	Obama had weighed in on the racially charged case before. 	 If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon, Obama said in March. I think [Trayvon's parents] are right to expect that all of us as Americans are going to take this with the seriousness it deserves, and we are going to get to the bottom of exactly what happened.