I?m a 17-year-old black male from Queens and I could have been Trayvon Martin. 	I feel like my very way of life is threatened by this verdict. I have to be more wary. I have to be more cautious of how I?m carrying myself. I?ll be looking over my shoulder just to walk down the block, and it shouldn?t be necessary in this day and age. It?s totally unfair. 	The verdict has shown me that someone can shoot a young black male and get away with it. I can?t trust anyone. Not to mention, I?ve lost all hope in the legal system. I don?t trust it. 	If George Zimmerman was black, they would have thrown him under the bus. 	It?s unfortunate, but this verdict sends a message that if you?re a young black male and you get into an altercation with someone of a different race, chances are they are going to get off. 	Where is the justice? 	For me, Saturday night?s ?not guilty? announcement was a hard pill to swallow. 	The ruling has made it clear to me that as minorities, we have to be as cautious as ever not to be viewed as intimidating or threatening. 	I?m not sure I can walk alone anymore just to go the local corner store. I?m scared that someone might think I?m trying to rob someone or break into a house. 	We now have to be careful where we go, change the way we walk and talk, and strip away parts of our identity in an effort to separate ourselves from a stereotype that cost Martin his life. Unfortunately, it?s a grim reality that truly hurts my heart. 	I have friends who have gotten stopped and frisked for no reason, other than that they were black or Hispanic, so who?s to say that racial profiling won?t now escalate from simple searches to fatal encounters? 	How am I supposed to feel knowing that simply because of the color of my skin, I can be stopped, searched, and now possibly even killed by the police at any time? Is it all right for my privacy to legally be violated, or for my life to be brought to an abrupt end because I?m black? 	It most certainly is not, and the fact Zimmerman could follow and shoot an innocent black male and get away with it, by claiming self-defense, makes me scared to step out of my house. 	Whether it?s a vigilante like Zimmerman, or a police officer using excessive force, my odds of dying unjustly have skyrocketed due to the fact that I?m a minority. 	I?m instantly viewed as a threat due to the actions of a few. You come to accept the soul-crushing status quo once you realize people clutch their belongings a little tighter when you step on the train. 	The ruling in the Trayvon Martin case has set a precedent: No longer can minorities such as myself freely roam without being targeted and when we are targeted, it will be justifiable under the law. 	It?s unjust that we have to be treated like second-rate citizens because of racial paranoia and ignorance. It?s not fair to me that I can?t wear my hoodie up at night because it might scare people. It?s wrong that I have to keep my hands visible at all times when I go to a store because of the actions of a few. 	But the worst consequence of all is that I have to walk to church, to school and home every day, knowing that day could be my last. 	Justin Francis, 17, is a senior at Queens High School for the Sciences at York College. He?s an aspiring journalist.