A peaceful protest of the Trayvon Martin verdict in Los Angeles unraveled into violence late Monday after a large group broke off and began smashing store windows, vandalizing cars and attacking bystanders, authorities said. 	More than 300 LAPD cops flooded the Crenshaw district in southwest L.A. after some 150 people splintered off from a prayer vigil in Leimert Park and blazed a trail of anarchy along nearby Crenshaw Boulevard, according to local reports. 	Helicopter footage showed angry rioters jumping on cars, breaking storefront windows, setting fires in curbside trash cans and attacking bystanders, including two people sitting on a bus bench at Slauson Avenue. 	Several of the rioters stormed a Wal-Mart and a mall at the Crenshaw Baldwin Hills shopping plaza, where witnesses said the goons stole merchandise, knocked down store displays and smashed furniture, local NBC4 reported. 	 The sounds I was hearing were plants being thrown, like the potted plants being broken on the floor?they were turning chairs over, they were throwing down garbage cans - whatever was moveable in the mall they were turning it over, one witness told local NBC4. 	Among those targeted by violence were a TV reporter and a cameraman from a local CBS station.?One of the journalists suffered a concussion in the attack and was taken to a local hospital, The Los Angeles Times reported. 	At around 10 p.m., cops officially declared the gathering an unlawful assembly and most of the streets were cleared within the hour, according to local reports. At least 13 people were arrested on charges ranging from vandalism to assault. 	No one was seriously injured, police said. 	The gathering had begun as a peaceful prayer rally at Leimert Park, with protesters chanting and singing to demonstrate their disappointment with a Florida jury's decision to acquit George Zimmerman in the death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. 	 It originally started out as a peaceful protest?and we certainly support that, in fact encourage people to peacefully protest, exercise their First Amendment rights, LAPD Cmdr. Andrew Smith told local NBC4. 	 But what happened here unfortunately is some people took this as an opportunity to break into buildings, to jump on cars, to commit acts of vandalism, to assault other people and to commit some thefts from some of the buildings here. 	At a news conference and in tweets late Monday, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti blamed the violence on a small group of angry protesters and urged L.A. residents to demonstrate their pain over the verdict peacefully. 	 'Nonviolence is a powerful & justweapon..It is a sword that heals-MLK.' Garcetti tweeted, quoting Martin Luther King, Jr. Exercise 1st Amendment and practice peace in City of Angels tonight. 	 We should respect Martin family's call for peace, he wrote later. 	LAPD Chief Charlie Beck echoed the mayor's call in a tweet: Violence is never the answer. Urging all protestors around LA 2let peace prevail. This is OUR City and we need to work 2gether 2 preserve it. 	With News Wire Services 	ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH VIDEO HERE