By Simon Tomlinson and David Williams Published: 03:54 EST, 8 July 2013 | Updated: 03:24 EST, 9 July 2013 Egypt was plunged further towards civil war yesterday after dozens of supporters of deposed president Mohamed Morsi were shot dead by the army. More than 50 people were killed and 435 injured in an attack condemned by Turkey as a ?massacre?. The clash has led to calls from Islamists for an all-out rebellion against the military ? which ousted the democratically-elected leader in a coup last week. The killings took place outside the Republican Guard building in Cairo, where some believe Mr Morsi is being held. Scroll down for video The statement said the forces arrested 200 attackers, armed with guns and ammunition. Morsi supporters have been holding rallies and a sit-in outside the Republican Guard building since the military deposed Morsi during massive protests against him. The military chief replaced Morsi with an interim leader, until presidential elections are held. But Morsi's supporters refuse to recognise the interim leader and insist Morsi be reinstated. Obama 'must know that this is a popular revolution', said Shawki Ibrahim,37, with a portrait of army chief General Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi dangling from his neck. 'The United States should support the people's will and not the interest of a person or a group seeking only their own interest.' The appointment of a prime minister is the key next step in building a post-Morsi leadership. The prime minister is to hold far greater powers in running the country than the interim president , Adly Mansour, a senior judge who was sworn into the post earlier. The bloc of secular, leftist and liberal factions that led the giant wave of protests against Mr Morsi last week are now the main grouping in a loose collection of movements trying to fill out leadership posts. They are pushing for one of their own as prime minister to have a strong voice in shaping the country. But also among them is a main party of the ultra-conservative Islamist movement known as Salafis - al-Nour - which turned against Mr Morsi months ago and backed his removal. On Saturday, al-Nour blocked the appointment of the most prominent liberal figure, Mohamed ElBaradei, as prime minister, who is deeply distrusted by the Islamist movement as too secular. Yesterday, the secular-liberal bloc offered a compromise candidate, Ziad Bahaa-Eldin, a prominent financial expert and an ally of Mr ElBaradei. The interim president's spokesman Ahmed al-Musalamani, told Egypt's ONTV that Mr Bahaa-Eldin was the leading candidate, with Mr ElBaradei positioned to be named vice president. But al-Nour again appeared prepared to block it. 'Our position is that the prime minister should not belong to a specific faction ... We want a technocrat,' al-Nour Party chief Younes Makhyoun said. He pointed to Mr Bahaa-Eldin's membership in the National Salvation Front, the main umbrella group of liberal parties that was Mr Morsi's main opposition. Al-Nour faces considerable pressure from its followers not to be seen as backing down to secular movements. Brotherhood officials claim some al-Nour members have already joined its pro-Morsi protests. When al-Nour broke with Mr Morsi months ago, it caused a split among its ranks, with some members forming a new party that remained with the president. Al-Nour was clearly concerned about appearing to side with the military against fellow Islamists at a time when Mr Morsi and five other prominent Brotherhood figures have been put in detention and Islamist television stations have been put off the air. Speaking on Al-Jazeera Mubasher Misr TV, Mr Makhyoun warned that if the interim president threw out the Islamist-drafted constitution and appointed a panel to write a new one, the party would break with the military-backed 'road map' for a transition. So far, the constitution has been only suspended and the talk has been of just amending disputed articles. Yesterday, the Dawaa Salafia, a body of clerics allied to al-Nour, said the new leadership must be inclusive of Islamists and criticised the heavy hand against the Brotherhood. 'No one should rejoice for undermining the freedom of others even if they are political rivals because repression is harmful for all,' it said in a statement. 'The police and the army should not discriminate between citizens based on their political colour. 'Worse than this is to discriminate against anyone because of their Islamic disposition.' * Tony Blair has called for a no-fly zone to be imposed over Syria. The former prime minister criticised the Government?s lack of intervention, saying it was a ?fight that matters to us as well?. He also claimed the conflict in Syria over the last two years had caused more deaths than the Iraq War in proportion to the population ? and called for the West to help arm the Syrian rebels.