By James Rush and Jill Reilly and Jaymi Mccann Published: 19:04 EST, 4 July 2013 | Updated: 10:50 EST, 6 July 2013 A newly formed Islamist group is threatening to use violence to impose Sharia law on Egypt after branding the army's ousting of the Muslim president a declaration of war on its faith. Ansar al-Shariah in Egypt said it would gather arms and start training its members, in a statement posted on an online forum for militants in the country's Sinai region yesterday and recorded by the SITE Monitoring organisation. The army's move, which was backed by mass rallies across Egypt, has raised fears Islamists could desert officially-recognised groups like Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood and move to more militant movements. The group's sinister declaration came as fierce clashes between supporters and opponents of the ousted president overnight left 36 dead and a further 1,079 injured, and a Coptic Christian priest was shot dead by gunmen in a suspected sectarian attack blamed on Islamist insurgents. The latest fatalities brings the overall death toll to at least 75 in a chaotic week for Egypt. SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEOS Egypt's interim president today held talks with the army chief and interior minister following yesterday's outburst of violence. Three days after the military pushed out Morsi, Egypt's first democratically elected leader, the country appears to be careening toward further conflict and turmoil. Morsi's supporters have vowed to take to the streets until the toppled Islamist leader is reinstated, while his opponents have called for more mass rallies to defend what they call the 'gains of June 30', a reference to the start of massive protests to call for the ousting of the president.? With both sides digging in, the country's acting president, Adly Mansour, met Saturday with army chief and Defence Minister Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi as well as Interior Minister Mohammed Ibrahim, who is in charge of the police, at the Ittihadiya presidential palace. It was the first time Mansour, a previously little known senior judge, has worked out of the president's main offices since he was sworn-in Thursday as the country's interim leader, a day after the military shunted Morsi aside after four days of the street protests that brought millions out into the streets. Mansour also met today with leaders of Tamrod, or Rebel, the youth movement that organized the mass anti-Morsi demonstrations, according to the officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to brief the media. Mansour was recently appointed by Morsi as chief justice of the Supreme Constitutional Court, and was only sworn in as the chief justice minutes before he took the oath of office as president. Enraged at his overthrow by millions of protesters backed by the country's powerful military, tens of thousands of Morsi's supporters took to the streets yesterday, holding rallies they declared would continue until the former leader is returned to office. The chaotic scenes that played out in the capital, mostly on a bridge leading to Tahrir, ended only after the army rushed in with armored vehicles to separate the warring groups. Some of Morsi's opponents jumped on at least one vehicle to try to show that the military was on their side. The deputy head of the Muslim Brotherhood was arrested overnight as tens of thousands of Morsi?s supporters marched towards the military barracks where he is being held by the military that overthrew him. An Interior Ministry spokesman said Khairat el-Shater, considered the most powerful man in the organisation, had been arrested. Spokesman Hani Abdel-Latif said? el-Shater and his brother were arrested late last night from an apartment in eastern Cairo on allegations of inciting violence against protesters in recent days. El-Shater, a wealthy businessman, is the deputy of the Brotherhood's supreme leader, but has long been considered the group's most powerful decision-maker. He was the group's original candidate for the presidency but was disqualified for a past prison sentence. Mohammed Morsi ran in his place and became Egypt's first freely elected president. Morsi supporters demonstrated in cities across the country yesterday with stone-throwing, firecrackers and gunfire on what his Muslim Brotherhood called a 'Friday of rage' against what they describe as a military coup that toppled Egypt's first elected leader a year after he took office. Mayhem nationwide left at least 30 people dead and 210 wounded as Morsi supporters vowed to reverse the military ousting. Among the dead were four killed when troops opened fire on a peaceful march by Islamists on the Republican Guard headquarters. In a dramatic appearance - his first since Morsi's ousting - the supreme leader of the Muslim Brotherhood defiantly vowed the president would return.? Mohammed Badie said: 'God make Morsi victorious and bring him back to the palace. 'We are his soldiers we defend him with our lives.' Badie addressed the military, saying it was a matter of honour for it to abide by its pledge of loyalty to the president, in what appeared to be an attempt to pull it away from its leadership that removed Morsi. 'Your leader is Morsi ... Return to the people of Egypt. Your bullets are not to be fired on your sons and your own people.' After nightfall, moments after Badie's speech, a large crowed of Islamists surged across 6th October Bridge over the Nile towards Tahrir Square, where a giant crowd of Morsi's opponents had been massed all day. Battles broke out there near the neighboring state TV building with gunfire, stone throwing and a burning car barricade at an exit ramp. 'They are firing at us, sons of dogs, where is the army,' one Morsi opponent shouted, as another was brought to medics with his jeans soaked in blood from wounds in his legs. Army troops deployed on another Nile bridge leading into Tahrir, sealing it off with barbed wire and armoured vehicles. Later at least seven armoured personnel carriers moved across the bridge, chasing away the Morsi supporters. Young civilians jumped onto the roofs of the APCs, shouting insults at the Islamists and chanting, 'The people and army are one hand'. A witness said he saw several people fall to the ground, wounded by shotgun pellets. Security sources said at least three demonstrators were killed when security forces opened fire. By today the reported death toll from clashes that raged throughout Friday and into the night had risen to 30. Thousands of Islamists had also taken to the streets of Alexandria and Assiut to protest against the army's ouster of Morsi and reject a planned interim government backed by their liberal opponents. In the Suez city of Ismailia, soldiers fired into the air as Morsi supporters tried to break into the governor's office. The Islamists retreated and there were no casualties, security sources said. Egypt's liberal coalition issued an 'urgent call' for its supporters to take to the streets in response to Islamist protests, raising the risk of clashes between the rival groups. In Damanhour, capital of the Beheira province in the Nile Delta, 21 people were wounded in violence between the factions. Ehab el-Ghoneimy, manager of the Damanhour general hospital said three people had been wounded with live bullets, others were wounded with birdshot, rocks, or had been hit with rods. Hoda Ghaneya, a leading female figure in the Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party FJP political arm, said she and two of her sons accompanying her at a Cairo rally after Friday prayers were ready to sacrifice themselves to the cause. 'We will die not as a sacrifice for Morsi, but so the Egyptian people recover their freedom,' she said near the Rabaa Adaweya mosque in a Cairo suburb that has been the centre of Islamist protests in the last few days. A state of emergency has been declared in Suez and South Sinai provinces after gunmen fired rocket-propelled grenades at army checkpoints guarding an airport and attacked a police station. One soldier was killed and two wounded as Islamist allies of Egypt's ousted president, Mohamed Morsi, called on people to retaliate to express outrage at the coup. Dozens of people were wounded in clashes in Mursi's Nile Delta home city on Thursday, raising fears of more of the violence in which several dozen have died in the past month. Yesterday's protests were given the slogan 'Friday of Rejection'. Outside the Rabaa Adaweya mosque in a Cairo suburb, where Morsi supporters have gathered over the last week, the army deployed extra armoured vehicles several hundred metres from makeshift barricades. Thousands of people milled around the area, while a group of about 50 men shouted pro-Morsi slogans. 'Down, down with military rule!' they chanted. 'We call for jihad in the whole country.' In the skies above the teeming city, the airforce staged fly-pasts, with jets leaving red, white and black smoke streams - representing the Egyptian flag - behind them in a show of force the military has employed frequently since Morsi's ouster. A military source said: 'We will continue to secure the places of protest with troops, and jets if necessary, to make sure the pro- and anti-Morsi demonstrators don't confront each other. We will let them demonstrate and go where they want.' Egypt's military moved swiftly against top Muslim Brotherhood figures, targeting the backbone of support for Morsi.? In the most dramatic step, authorities arrested the group's revered leader from a seaside villa and flew him by helicopter to detention in the capital. Open fire: A witness said he saw several people fall to the ground, wounded by shotgun pellets. Security sources said at least three demonstrators were killed when security forces opened fire Furious over what it calls a military coup against democracy, the Brotherhood said it would not work with the new leadership. It and harder-line Islamist allies called for a wave of protests today, dubbing it the 'Friday of Rage' and vowing to escalate if the military did not back down. There are widespread fears of Islamist violence in retaliation for Mr Morsi's removal and already some former militant extremists have vowed to fight. Brotherhood officials urged their followers to keep their protests peaceful. 'We declare our complete rejection of the military coup staged against the elected president and the will of the nation,' it said in a statement, read by senior cleric Abdel-Rahman el-Barr to a crowd outside the Rabia al-Adawiya Mosque in Cairo. 'We refuse to participate in any activities with the usurping authorities.' The Rabia al-Adawiya protesters plan to march to the Ministry of Defence today. The Brotherhood condemned the crackdown, including the shutdown on Wednesday night of its television channel, Misr25, its newspaper and three pro-Morsi Islamist TV stations. The military, it said, was returning Egypt to the practices of 'the dark, repressive, dictatorial and corrupt ages'. A military statement last night appeared to signal a wider wave of arrests was not in the offing. A spokesman, Col Ahmed Mohammed Ali, said in a Facebook posting that that the army and security forces would not take 'any exceptional or arbitrary measures' against any political group. Many of the Brotherhood's opponents want senior figures prosecuted for what they say were crimes committed during Mr Morsi's rule, just as Mubarak was prosecuted for protester deaths during the 2011 uprising. In the past year, dozens were killed in clashes with Brotherhood supporters and security forces. But the swift moves raise perceptions of a revenge campaign against the Brotherhood. The National Salvation Front, the top opposition political group during Mr Morsi's presidency and a key member of the coalition that worked with the military in his removal, criticised the moves, saying: 'We totally reject excluding any party, particularly political Islamic groups.' The Front has proposed one of its top leaders, Mohammed ElBaradei, to become prime minister of the interim cabinet, a post that will hold strong powers since Mr Mansour's presidency post is considered symbolic. Mr ElBaradei, a Nobel Peace laureate who once headed the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency, is considered Egypt's top reform advocate. 'Reconciliation is the name of the game, including the Muslim Brotherhood. We need to be inclusive,' Munir Fakhry Abdel-Nour, a leading member of the group, said. 'The detentions are a mistake.' He said the arrests appeared to be prompted by security officials' fears over possible calls for violence by Brotherhood leaders. Mr Morsi has been detained in an unknown location since Wednesday night and at least a dozen of his top aides and advisers have been under what is described as 'house arrest', though their locations are also unknown. Besides the Brotherhood's top leader, General Guide Mohammed Badie, security officials have also arrested his predecessor Mahdi Akef and one of his two deputies, Rashad Bayoumi, as well as Saad el-Katatni, head of the Brotherhood's Freedom and Justice Party, and ultra-conservative Salafi figure Hazem Abu Ismail, who has a considerable street following. Authorities have also issued a wanted list for more than 200 Brotherhood members and leaders of other Islamist groups. Among them was Khairat el-Shater, another deputy of the general guide who is widely considered the most powerful figure in the Brotherhood - he was arrested late on Friday. The arrest of Gen Badie was a dramatic step, since even Mubarak and his predecessors had been reluctant to move against the group's top leader. The ranks of Brotherhood members across the country swear a strict oath of unquestioning allegiance to the general guide, vowing to 'hear and obey'. It has been decades since any Brotherhood general guide was put in prison. Gen Badie and Mr el-Shater were widely believed by the opposition to be the real power in Egypt during Mr Morsi's tenure. Gen Badie was arrested late on Wednesday from a villa where he had been staying in the Mediterranean coastal city of Marsa Matrouh and flown by helicopter to Cairo, security officials said.