By Tara Brady Published: 10:33 EST, 30 June 2013 | Updated: 12:59 EST, 1 July 2013 Thousands of opponents and supporters of Egypt's Islamist president have turned out in their masses for a nationwide protest which many fear could turn deadly.? Waving Egyptian flags, crowds descended on Tahrir Square in the heart of Cairo, one of a number of sites in the capital and around the country, where rallies have been organised.? Chants of 'erhal' or 'leave!,' have rang out in the square, birthplace of the 2011 uprising that toppled autocrat Hosni Mubarak. Scroll down for video Hundreds of anti-Morsi protesters gathered outside, kept back by shotgun blasts from inside the compound, continued to hurl flares and rocks. No police were present. Some protesters were taken away with wounds from birdshot. On the other side of Cairo, thousands of the Islamist leader's supporters gathered not far from the presidential palace in a show of support.? Some wore homemade body armour and construction hats and carried shields and clubs. There is a sense among opponents and supporters of President Morsi that Sunday's rally is a make-or-break day, increasing worries that the two camps will come to blows despite vows by each to remain peaceful.? Already at least seven people, including American student Andrew Pochter, 21, have been killed in clashes the past week, mainly in Nile Delta cities and the coastal city of Alexandria.? Today's demonstrations, which have fallen on the anniversary of Morsi's inauguration as Egypt's first freely elected leader, are the culmination of growing polarisation since he took office.? In one camp are the president and his Islamist allies, including the Muslim Brotherhood and more hard-line groups.? They have vowed to defend Morsi, saying street demonstrations cannot be allowed to remove a freely elected leader.? The other is an array of secular and liberal Egyptians as well as moderate Muslims and Christians. They say the Islamists have overstepped their election mandate, accusing them of trying to monopolise power and mismanage the country.? The opposition believes that with sheer numbers in the street, it can pressure Morsi to step down. 'Today, the people will triumph over fascism,' prominent pro-democracy campaigner and bestselling novelist Alaa al-Aswany wrote on his Twitter account. Police have seized firearms, explosives and even artillery shells around the country in an attempt to prevent violence. In an interview published on Sunday in The Guardian, Morsi - who has three years left in term - said he had no plans to meet the protesters' demand for an early presidential election.? 'If we changed someone in office who was elected according to constitutional legitimacy - well, there will be people or opponents opposing the new president too, and a week or a month later, they will ask him to step down,' said Morsi. 'There is no room for any talk against this constitutional legitimacy,' he said.? As the crowds swelled in Tahrir, traffic in the capital's normally clogged streets was light at midday with many residents choosing to stay home for fear of violence or a wave of crime similar to the one that swept Egypt during the 18-day, anti-Mubarak uprising. Banks were closing early and most government departments were either closed for the day or were thinly staffed. Most schools and colleges are already closed for the summer holidays.? Thousands of Morsi's supporters have staged a sit-in since Friday in front of the Rabia al-Adawiya Mosque near the Ittihadiya presidential palace. In the evening, anti-Morsi crowds plan to march on the palace and Morsi supporters have vowed to defend it if it is attacked.? The opposition protests emerged from a petition campaign by a youth activist group known as Tamarod, Arabic for 'rebel.'? For several months, the group has been collecting signatures calling for Morsi to step down. On Saturday the group announced it had more than 22 million signatures - proof, it claims, that a broad sector of the public no longer wants Morsi in office.? Morsi's supporters have questioned the authenticity and validity of the signatures. Morsi, who has three years left in his presidential term, claims that Mubarak loyalists are behind the planned protests.? His supporters say Tamarod is a cover for thugs loyal to Mubarak.? The 22 million signatures, while they have no legal weight, deal a symbolic blow to Morsi at a time when he is widely seen by Egyptians to have failed to tackle the country's most pressing problems, from surging crime rates and high unemployment to fuel shortages and power outages.? If verified, the number of people who signed the petition calling on Morsi to step down would be nearly twice the number who voted for him a year ago in a run-off that he won with around 52 per cent of the vote. Tamarod organisers said they discarded about 100,000 signed forms because they were duplicates. Adding to his troubles, eight lawmakers from the country's interim legislature announced their resignation on Saturday to protest Morsi's policies. The 270-seat chamber was elected early last year by less than 10 per cent of Egypt's eligible voters which is dominated by Islamists.? A legal adviser to Morsi also announced his resignation late Saturday. Defense Minister Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi last week gave the president and his opponents a week to reach a compromise and warned that the military would intervene to prevent the nation from entering a 'dark tunnel.' Army troops backed by armored vehicles have been deployed in some of Cairo's suburbs, with soldiers, some in combat gear, stood at traffic lights and major intersections.