Prince George of Cambridge is the son of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and third in line to the throne after his father, Prince William and grandfather, Prince Charles. HRH Prince George of Cambridge was born on July 22 2013, at St Mary?s Hospital in London, to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge. He replaces his uncle Prince Harry as third in line to the throne, after his father, Prince William and grandfather, Prince Charles. This was the year of the heavy floods and the Winter Olympics; the rise of Ukip and the return of Kate Bush. As 2014 draws to a close, we bring you our top 100 Britons: the people who made the biggest impact on British life. Who should be higher/lower? And who did we miss? Join the conversation on Twitter #GreatBrit2014 Kate and William take part in annual church service - but leave baby George at home As Father Christmas gives Prince George a model train set, Victoria Lambert examines the obsession boys have with these toys The joys of a really beautiful rocking horse are not to be underestimated, says Rowan Pelling George's cherubic cheeks are more Kate than William, says Sarah Chalmers As the George effect sees would-be customers clamouring for the sold-out Cath Kidston guard tank top worn by Prince George, we look back at what the young prince has been seen in Enterprising parents are selling their children's Cath Kidston tank tops on ebay Parents, even royal ones, suit themselves not their offspring when it comes to baby clothes, writes Jane Shilling Video	 							 Prince William and Kate Middleton release three new photos of Prince George at the age of 16 months shot at his home in Kensington Palace. Prince George's sold-out Cath Kidston tank top to return to stores in the New Year, says the brand The high street designers who can sell you an outfit like baby George's for the princely sum of ?111. Pictures released by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge show toddler prince in wear at Kensington Palace The Duke tells how his baby son George likes playing with iPad games at a reception at the Empire State building in New York James Middleton says sister Kate's condition improving after being taken ill again while expecting second child with Prince William A primary school has been saved from closure after pupils wrote to Prince George and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge saying they didn't want it to close A warning has been issued over fears Prince George's privacy is being invaded The Duchess of Cambridge is suffering from extreme morning sickness again. Jennifer Burner, who vomited up to 35 times a day with her second pregnancy, knows how it feels Birth order is a key factor in personality ? just look at Prince Harry As news breaks that the Duchess of Cambridge is pregnant with her second child, what does an expectant mother need to know when going from one baby to two? Video	 							 Following the official announcement from Kensington Palace that the Duchess of Cambridge is pregnant with her second child, The Telegraph's Chief Reporter Gordon Rayner says speculation is already rife that the baby will be another boy Video	 							 As new breaks that Kate Middleton is pregnant with her second child we look the back at some of our fondest moments of Prince George's first year Prince George's christening: we look back at the Duchess' pregnancy. Harry falls two places to leave Oliver as the most popular boy?s name and fictional names also make it on this year's list Prince Harry was snapped photobombing New Zeland rugby coach Gordon Tietjens and former Olympic boxer Trevor Shailer at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow