By George, they?ve got it! 	The newborn prince?s name is George Alexander Louis, his happy parents Prince William and Kate Middleton announced Wednesday. 	?The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are delighted to announce that they have named their son George Alexander Louis,? the royal family said in an announcement. 	?The baby will be known as His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge.? 	The couple revealed the name of the baby that is third in line to the throne two days after he was born a healthy 8 pounds and 6 ounces. 	George was the favorite with London bookmakers, too. The British firm Ladbrokes had the odds for George at 5-2, ahead of other names like James, Arthur and Henry. 	Royal historian Dr. Tracy Borman called the name ?a safe choice.? 	 It is a very, very royal name. They have kept it simple, it flows nicely and is the final piece in the jigsaw for the last three days,? Borman said. 	The newborn was introduced to his great-grandmother, Queen Elizabeth, Wednesday in advance of her annual summer vacation in Scotland. 	And it is likely that the Queen approved of the baby?s name. 	There have been six King George's up to now, most recently the Queen's father ? although he was known to his family as Bertie. 	Another royal historian, Dr. Anna Whitelock, noted that if the little prince keeps his name when he assumes the throne, it will echo through the centuries. 	?It is a name synonymous with stability in the monarchy ? the Georgian period ? so very much a name of continuity and tradition,? said Whitelock. 	The Georgian era covers 1714 to 1830, and is most noted for the emergence of Romantic poets like Samuel Coleridge and William Blake, as well as the tremendous social change rooted in the early days of the industrial revolution. 	And there?s one other reason why George is a good choice: ?It can't be shortened in any offensive way,? said historian Suzannah Lipscomb. 	The name Alexander harks back to three medieval Scottish kings. 	The name Louis also carries royal significance. 	It could be a tribute to Lord Louis Mountbatten, the Duke of Edinburgh's uncle and the last British Viceroy of India before independence in 1947. William's father, Prince Charles, was a close friend of Mountbatten, who was assassinated by the Irish Republican Army in 1979. 	The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge had long been expected to pick a traditional royal name for their son, who was born at St. Mary's Hospital in west London. 	They made their decision quickly compared to William?s parents ? Princess Diana and Prince Charles took a week before revealing his four names, William Arthur Philip Louis. 	George is also a well-regarded name among the infant?s future subjects ? it was the 12th most popular in the United Kingdom last year. 	The duke and duchess are expected to visit Middleton?s family in their village near London. 	They also will soon choose a photographer for the royal baby portrait.