By Daily Mail Reporter Published: 04:00 EST, 18 July 2013 | Updated: 19:19 EST, 18 July 2013 Vladimir Putin was facing an international storm last night after a lawyer who unmasked corruption among leaders of his United Russia party was jailed for five years. Alexei Navalny, 37, led massive protests against the Kremlin last year and had intended to challenge Mr Putin for the Russian presidency. He was convicted of embezzling ?325,000 in a timber deal, after what was denounced by his supporters as a show trial ?redolent of the Stalin era?. His jailing was widely seen as a tactic to prevent him running for Moscow mayor this year and challenging Mr Putin for the Kremlin in 2018. Foreign Secretary William Hague blasted ?the selective application of the rule of law in Russia?. Former Russian leader Mikhail Gorbachev and Michael McFaul, US Ambassador to Russia, also condemned the political use of courts. Navalny, one of President Vladimir Putin's biggest critics, was led away from court by law enforcement officers after the judge pronounced the sentence in the industrial city of Kirov. Prosecutors had asked for a six-year sentence. Navalny was found guilty of heading a group that embezzled 16 million rubles ?330,000 worth of timber from state-owned company Kirovles in 2009 while he worked as an unpaid adviser to the provincial governor in Kirov. That was the same year that Navalny, a lawyer, started an anti-corruption blog that attracted a wide following and propelled him into becoming a key opposition figure.? It was Navalny who called the dominant United Russia party 'the party of crooks and thieves' - a phrase that became a rallying cry for the nascent opposition to Russia's leader, Vladimir Putin. Backers say he is innocent, calling the trial unfair and the evidence against him shoddy. The U.S. and EU both criticszed the ruling within hours, arguing that the case appeared to be politically motivated. While waiting for the sentence for him and co-defendant Pyotr Ofitserov - who was also found guilty of embezzlement - Navalny played with his smartphone and occasionally smiled sardonically.? A post on his Twitter account during the long verdict reading noted the thick packet of papers the judge was reading and said: 'We're going crazy while we listen.' Ofitserov ran a timber trading company in Kirov during Navalny's time in the region.? Navalny was a top leader of the wave of massive protest rallies that broke out in late 2011 after a national parliamentary election scarred by allegations of widespread fraud. Scroll down for video More recently, he pushed his ambitions by declaring himself a candidate for this autumn's Moscow mayoral election.? The conviction does not immediately nullify his candidacy. That wouldn't happen until his defense team exhausted its appeals, which could take several months.? It's unclear whether the conviction would intimidate his supporters or undermine the activists who have coalesced around him.? The judge said he found the testimony of key prosecution witness Vyacheslav Opalev to be 'trustworthy and consistent.' Opalev, who was the timber company's general director, got a suspended sentence in an expedited trial in December after pleading guilty to conspiring with Navalny. Navalny insists Opalev framed him out of revenge. Navalny had recommended that Opalev be fired and that officials investigate potential corruption in his company, which had incurred 200 million rubles ?4million in losses by the time Navalny arrived in the region.? Throughout the trial, testimony of prosecution witnesses clashed with the core arguments of the indictment that claimed Navalny's work in Kirov led to the embezzlement. None of the managers at Kirovles who appeared in court, except for Opalev, were able to confirm that Navalny defrauded the company.? Navalny had long said he expected to be convicted, and in a final blog post before leaving Moscow for Kirov, he downplayed his personal importance to the wider opposition.? 'The most important thing is to muster up the strength, shake off laziness and do something. This doesn't require any leadership as such,' he wrote.