Published: 06:45 EST, 24 July 2013 | Updated: 02:34 EST, 25 July 2013 More than 100 Bulgarian lawmakers and ministers were trapped inside their Parliament building today by protesters calling for the government to resign. The politicians in the Bulgarian capital Sofia had to call riot police who pushed away protesters and formed a corridor with their shields to allow those who had been trapped inside since yesterday to get out of the building. They had been blockaded for more than eight hours by demonstrators seeking to oust the left-leaning government which has only been in office since May. Scroll down for video Anti-government protests in Sofia have been going on for 40 days, and escalated yesterday evening as several hundred demonstrators trapped 109 people - including three ministers, some 30 lawmakers and their staff - inside Parliament. Police had tried to escort the officials out by bus on Tuesday, but protesters blocked the vehicle hurling stones at it. Seven protesters and two police officers were treated in hospital for head wounds. The Socialist-backed government took office after early elections in May, following the resignation of the previous cabinet amid anti-austerity protests. The government commands only 120 seats in the 240-seat Parliament and has to rely on the support from a nationalist party. The appointment of controversial media mogul Delyan Peevski as head of the national security agency sparked this wave of protests. The appointment was immediately revoked but demonstrators insist the government is corrupt and must resign. Recent public-opinion polls show they are supported by about two-thirds of Bulgaria's 7.3 million people, who have the lowest incomes in the European Union.? President Rosen Plevneliev issued a statement calling on the protesters to keep the demonstrations 'peaceful and civilised.' 'For the first time since the start of the protests we have now witnessed tension and attempts for provocation,' Plevneliev said, urging the protesters to restrain from any acts which increased the tension and breach public order. He also called on the police to help keep the protest peaceful.