Secrets-slinger Edward Snowden emerged from hiding Friday in a Moscow airport where he has been stranded for three weeks and asked Russia for temporary asylum. 	Snowden said he would remain in Russia until he can be guaranteed safe passage to any of the South American nations that have offered to take him in permanently. 	?I ask for your assistance in requesting guarantees of safe passage from the relevant nations in securing my travel to Latin America, as well as requesting asylum in Russia until such time as these states accede to law and my legal travel is permitted,? Snowden said after meeting with Russian officials and human rights group workers at Sheremetyevo Airport. 	?I will be submitting my request to Russia today, and hope it will be accepted favorably,? he said. 	The 30-year-old former intelligence contractor, who has been holed up at the airport since June 23 after fleeing Hong Kong, appeared disheveled but in generally good health, according to reports. 	Russian President Vladimir Putin has said his government would grant Snowden political asylum if he agreed to stop ?harming our American partners,? a condition Snowden had previously rejected. 	But he appeared to change his mind Friday. 	? Snowden said he was informed of this condition and that he can easily accept it,? said Russian politician Vyacheslav Nikonov, who attended the small meeting. ?He does not intend to damage the United States? interests, given that he is a patriot of his country.? 	Washington denounced the meeting, with White House spokesman Jay Carney saying that ?providing a propaganda platform for Mr. Snowden runs counter to the Russian government?s previous declarations of Russia?s neutrality? in the case. 	State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said the U.S. was ?disappointed? that Russian officials ?facilitated this meeting? at the airport. 	?We still believe that Russia has the opportunity to do the right thing and facilitate his return to the United States,? she said. 	Snowden later said he had formally accepted ?all offers of support or asylum I have been extended and all others that may be offered in the future.? He has received offers from Venezuela, Bolivia, Ecuador and Nicaragua. 	Among the other attendees of the hastily arranged meeting were Amnesty International Russia Chief Sergei Nikitin, Human Rights Watch worker Tanya Lokshina and Russian human rights ombudsman Vladimir Lukin. 	Snowden also took the opportunity during the meeting to blast the U.S., which has charged him with espionage and made efforts to pursue him and further challenge his life on the run. 	?The government and intelligence services of the United States of America have attempted to make an example of me, a warning to all others who might speak out as I have. I have been made stateless and hounded for my act of political expression,? he said. ?These dangerous escalations represent a threat ... to the basic rights shared by every person, every nation, to live free from persecution, and to seek and enjoy asylum.