By Will Stewart In Moscow Published: 11:37 EST, 24 July 2013 | Updated: 15:05 EST, 24 July 2013 Fugitive intelligence leaker Edward Snowden faces living under strict curbs imposed by the Russian security agencies when he is allowed to move from his hideaway in a Moscow airport transit zone, it emerged on Wednesday. The 30-year-old U.S. runaway remained in the zone last night after a last-minute glitch in plans to allow him to cross the border control pending a formal decision regarding his application for asylum. He is still expected to leave a cramped transit hotel soon but a senior Russian official said his movements would initially be strictly curtailed, even though President Vladimir Putin has denied his intelligence services are seeking secrets known to the former contractor for the National Security Agency. Scroll down for video... The revelation will fuel U.S. concerns that his undisclosed espionage data is in jeopardy. The White House was ?seeking clarity? about Snowden's status. Vladimir Volokh, the head of the public council of the Russian Federal Migration Service, insisted: ?He will only be allowed to stay in places designated by Russian law enforcement agencies.? It was not immediately clear why Snowden - who has been inundated with marriage proposals by Russian women - did not leave the transit zone of Sheremetyevo Airport on Wednesday. He has been holed up here for a month. It was earlier reported he had received the necessary document allowing him to cross into Russia pending his request for temporary political asylum. But his Kremlin-friendly lawyer Anatoly Kucherena insisted yesterday that he was remaining in the transit zone for now despite reports that he was poised to cross the Russian frontier and travel into central Moscow.? A large media pack were awaiting the move, but it appeared a key certificate was not yet ready. ?He is staying here,? he said. ?He is here in the transit zone.? While Snowden was fingerprinted pending his move, his application was ?not a standard process?, and this caused delays. ?There is lots of bureaucracy to get through, the documents are still being looked over,? said Kucherena. Snowden has indicated he later hopes to secure exile in South America with offers from Venezuela, Bolivia and Nicaragua, but yesterday his lawyer said he might apply for Russian citizenship. ?Edward also asked me to thank all the women in Russia for offering him to marry them,? added the lawyer. ?He was in stitches of laughter when he heard that there were a lot of such proposals. ?I passed him some clothes. I noticed that each time we meet he wears one and the same shirt. ?So I went out and bought him some shirts and trousers so that he at least could have a chance to change. There is no laundry or ironing service in the conditions where he lives right now.? The lawyer stressed Snowden is staying in the transit zone ?for now? and ?intends to stay in Russia, study Russian culture.? He brought the fugitive Russian classics by Anton Chekhov and Fyodor Dostoyevsky's novel ?Crime and Punishment.? The novel is about the mental anguish and moral dilemmas of a poor ex-student who kills a pawnbroker for her cash but Kucherena said: ?I'm not implying he's going through a similar mental anguish.? Russia has rejected white House calls for Snowden to be deported to the US to face espionage charges for leaking details of the NSA's wide-ranging spying activities targeting data and phone communication. Volokh confirmed Snowden would ?not be extradited to any country where his life might be in danger, because he has applied for asylum here.?? Putin demanded that Snowden stops leaking secrets damaging to the US while he is in Russia.