By Daily Mail Reporter Published: 14:11 EST, 16 July 2013 | Updated: 18:18 EST, 16 July 2013 A U.S. Marine who was among the soldiers captured on video urinating on the bodies of dead Taliban fighters in Afghanistan says 'hell no' he doesn't regret doing it. And, if given the chance, he'd do it again. Sergeant Joseph Chamblin argues that the infamous 2011 incident, which sparked international outrage and strong condemnation by American officials, was an attempt by the battle-weary Marines to execute 'psychological warfare' - defiling the enemy's corpses in a manner offensive to their Muslim faith. Chamblin told WSOC-TV that the insurgents in the video had been planting improvised explosives and were likely responsible for the death just days earlier of one of the Marines' comrades - Sergeant Mark Bradley, 25, Chamblin said. The 15-year Marine veteran, who lives outside Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune in southeast North Carolina, said he wants the public to understand why the Marines urinated on the bodies. The moment came after a furious gun battle between Chamblin and his fellow Marine snipers and the Taliban insurgents. A dozen of the enemy fighters were killed. 'It's not like it was a conscious thought or decision but someone was like, You know what, p*** on these guys. And someone said, Yeah, p*** on them, ' he recalled. Chamblin was one of nine Marines charged by the military as a result of the incident. He received a court-martial and pleaded guilty to urinating on the bodies and of dereliction of duty. He was demoted and fined $500. But Chamblin, who is leaving the Marine Corps and writing a book about his combat experiences, remains defiant. 'Do I regret doing it? Hell no,' he told the TV station. And he's do it again, he said. He rejects accusations from military brass and civilian leadership that his actions put more American troops at danger by inflaming religious tensions in Afghanistan. 'If anything, it was more of a psychological effect on the enemy because if an infidel touches the body, they're not going to Mecca or paradise. So, now these insurgents see what happens when you mess with us,' he said. Video of the incident posted on YouTube caused widespread outrage among Afghans. The video shows four Marines in full combat gear urinating on the bodies of three dead Afghans in July 2011. One of the Marines looks down at the bodies and quipps, 'Have a good day, buddy.' The Marine Corps said the urination took place during a counterinsurgency operation in the Musa Qala district of Helmand province, located in the south of the country. The urination video surfaced amid a string of embarrassing episodes for U.S. forces in Afghanistan. American troops were caught up in controversies over burning Muslim holy books, posing for photos with insurgents' bloodied remains and an alleged massacre of 16 Afghan villagers by a soldier. After the video garnered international attention on YouTube, senior military officials sternly condemned the behavior of the Marines involved. The video of the men was called a 'recruitment tool for the Taliban.' Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said he feared that it could set back efforts to begin reconciliation talks with the Taliban. Afghan officials were outraged by the images, with President Hamid Karzai branding the Marine's actions in the video as 'inhuman.'