By Daniel Miller and Helen Collis Published: 03:15 EST, 12 July 2013 | Updated: 15:07 EST, 12 July 2013 NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden resurfaced today after more than a month in hiding and made clear he wants to take asylum in Russia. At a closed-door meeting at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport with Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International heads, the former employee of the NSA and the CIA said he has been granted asylum by several South American countries but is unable to take up their offers because the U.S. has revoked his passport. The former National Security Agency worker, who revealed details of a U.S. intelligence programme to monitor internet activity has been staying in the transit lounge at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport since June 23. Scroll down for video... According to Ellen Barry, of the New York Times who was in contact with Tatiana Lokshina, of Human Rights Watch,who was present at the meeting, Snowden says he is recognised as an asylum seeker by the UN High Commission on Refugees ? but the U.S., he says, does not recognise this, as the Morales plane affair showed. He has urged international organisations to petition the U.S. and EU not to interfere with his right to seek asylum. Referring to Putin's condition that he can only stay if he stops harming the U.S., Snowden reportedly has said: 'No actions I take or plan are meant to harm the U.S. ... I want the U.S. to succeed.' Ms Barry was in contact with Human Rights Watch's Tatiana Lokshina, who was present throughout the Snowden meeting. Snowden told the meeting that he has received offers from Venezuela, Russia, Bolivia, Nicaragua, and Ecuador and he thanked them all. The offer from Venezuela has been made formally. He said he accepts all the offers, present and future. Snowden said he wants help in guaranteeing his safe passage to Latin America. He will submit an asylum claim to Russia today, but he plans to go to Latin America eventually, Ms Lokshina reported. Ms Lokshina quoted him on her Twitter account as saying: 'I am only in a position to accept Russia's offer because of my inability to travel.' The Kremlin said previously that Snowden had withdrawn a previous request for asylum in Russia. After the meeting, Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov has said he is unaware of a formal asylum request from Snowden, according to Reuters. Russian MP Vyacheslav Nikonov was among those who met Snowden today. The Duma member told reporters before the meeting that he expected Mr Snowden called for it to seek asylum in Russia. Ms Lokshina said that Snowden wants to remain in Russia and travel, and he wants international organisations to petition the U.S. and EU not to interfere with that. In interview with Russian media ofter the meeting, Ms Lokshina said he feels safe in the airport, where he said conditions for him are 'fine', but he knows he cannot stay there for ever. Lokshina was being absolutely besieged by the press. When asked if he would stop his activities, he said there was nothing to stop because he felt his activities were not harming the U.S. WikiLeaks, which has published the confidential documents provided by Snowden while he has been unable to travel, has tweeted that it will be releasing Snowden's statement to human rights groups this evening. Snowden invited Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, a representative from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees UNHCR , and Transparency International, a global corruption watchdog, to meet with him via a letter on Facebook published right . He is expected to give a statement soon. In the letter to human rights watch organisations asking them to meet with him, he said: 'I have been extremely fortunate to enjoy and accept many offers of support and asylum from brave countries around the world. 'These nations have my gratitude, and I hope to travel to each of them to extend my personal thanks to their people and leaders.' He urged cooperation and support of these organisations and claimed the threats from the U.S. represent a 'threat to the dignity of Latin America' and threat this 'personal security' and a threat to? the 'basic right shared by every living person to live free from persecution'. Activists present at the meeting included Sergei Nikitin, head of Amnesty International's Russia office, Russia's presidential human rights ombudsman Vladimir Lukin, prominent attorney Genri Reznik, and Nikonov. Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro has formally offered Mr Snowden asylum, while Bolivia and Nicaragua said they too would take him in. Ecuador has said it will consider any asylum request. Last week Austrian authorities searched the Bolivian president's plane after it was diverted to Vienna because the U.S. suspected Snowden had been smuggled on board. The United States has cancelled Mr Snowden's passport and it is unclear if he has travel documents he would need to leave Moscow. Yesterday U.S. officials criticised China for failing to extradite Mr Snowden when he was in Hong Kong. It came at the end of two days of high-level talks between the US and China on security and the economy. The world's two largest economies had announced their plans for a treaty to combat climate change. It's not clear whether the Obama administration is hoping a Latin American nation will double-cross Snowden and offer him up to Washington after he arrives from Russia. Sources say Snowden will not be allowed to board the only Aeroflot plane that offers direct connections to Caracas, a regular service to Cuban capital Havana. The routing overflies both the EU and the US and there are fears the plane will be denied rights to Western airspace, and forced to land, leading to Snowden's arrest. The direct distance from Moscow to Caracas is 6,175 miles but it appeared too far for Snowden. The escape route for Snowden is fraught with problems.