By Paul Thompson In Miami Published: 17:50 EST, 14 July 2013 | Updated: 02:11 EST, 15 July 2013 The U.S Justice Department is considering whether federal prosecutors should file civil rights charges now that Zimmerman has been acquitted of both murder and manslaughter charges in the Trayvon Martin case. In a statement on Sunday, the Justice Department said the FBI and the U.S. Attorney's office for Florida are evaluating evidence. The news comes as President Barack Obama issued a statement calling for calm after George Zimmerman's acquittal in the fatal shooting of unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin.? Scroll down for video President Obama said the death of Trayvon Martin was a tragedy for America but 'the jury had spoken'. He said: 'I know this case has elicited strong passions. And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher. ?But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken.? ?I now ask every American to respect the call for calm reflection from two parents who lost their young son.' The President's statement comes as American cities brace themselves for race riots following the acquittal of the vigilante who shot the unarmed black teenager. George Zimmerman shot Trayvon Martin as the 17-year-old was returning from a trip to the shops. Prosecutors said Zimmerman was a ?wannabe cop? who identified his victim as a potential troublemaker simply by ?racial profiling?. But jurors accepted the 29-year-old?s claim that he had acted in self-defence after the teenager attacked him. The six-strong jury included five white women and another woman of undisclosed ethnicity. Protest marches were held within hours of Saturday night?s verdict and violence was reported as far away as Oakland in California. Gangs of youths attacked police and attempted to set cars on fire while others smashed windows in a downtown area. Police swamped the town of Sanford, Florida, where the trial took place and the gated estate where Trayvon was killed was barricaded off to stop any demonstrations. Officers have put in place plans to stop youths from forming ?flash mobs? having learned from the London riots where gangs used social media to organise. Zimmerman went into hiding immediately after the verdict. He was described as a ?dead man walking?, having received numerous death threats. The neighbourhood watch volunteer killed Trayvon in February last year after he spotted the hooded Miami teenager who was visiting a family friend. Zimmerman called police to report an intruder and followed Trayvon in his car. At some point the pair got into a fight and Trayvon was shot once in the chest. Police in Sanford, which is about 30 miles from Orlando, initially failed to arrest Zimmerman.? The killing was ruled justified under Florida?s controversial ?stand your ground? law which allows the use of deadly force if a person is in fear of their life.? But after protests across the US, Zimmerman was charged with second-degree murder. During a three-week trial the case was widely seen to have fallen apart after defence witnesses backed up Zimmerman?s story that he was attacked by Trayvon, who apparently told him he was ?going to die tonight?. A crucial part of the evidence rested on who was heard on an emergency call screaming for help. Trayvon?s parents said it was their son, while Zimmerman?s family and friends insisted it was him. A forensic expert said the gunshot wound showed Trayvon was on top of Zimmerman when the fatal shot was fired. Legal experts said the prosecution had failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Zimmerman had deliberately killed the teenager. They acknowledged this by asking the judge at the 11th hour to let the jury consider a lesser charge of manslaughter. The jury took 16 hours to find Zimmerman not guilty of all charges. Zimmerman?s defence team said the case would never have gone to trial had he been black. Lawyer Michael O?Mara said the case was taken up by civil rights leaders and Zimmerman was charged for political reasons to create ?a civil rights event?. Many celebrities took to Twitter to express outrage at the verdict, while the singer Beyonce held a minute?s silence at her concert in Tennessee. Last year, President Obama said: ?If I had a son, he?d look like Trayvon.'?