Mohammed Morsi vows to remain in office as Egyptian army's deadline looms Updated July 03, 2013 18:18:54 Photo: An Egyptian supporter of deposed president Mohammed Morsi holds a copy of the Koran stained with blood and empty casing as he attends a rally in support of the former Islamist leader outside Cairo's Rabaa al-Adawiya mosque on July 8, 2013. AFP: Mahmud Hams Photo: An Egyptian flag stained with blood flies over members of the Muslim Brotherhood and supporters of deposed Egyptian president Mohammed Morsi outside Raba El-Adwyia mosque in Cairo on July 8, 2013, following clashes in front of the Republican Guard headquarters. Reuters: Mohamed Abd El Ghany Photo: Supporters of deposed Egyptian president Mohammed Morsi react in front of army soldiers at Republican Guard headquarters in Nasr City, a suburb of Cairo, on July 8, 2013. Reuters: Amr Abdallah Dalsh Photo: Egyptian supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood shout slogans during a rally in Cairo in support of deposed president Mohammed Morsi on July 6, 2013. The protest comes after a day of clashes which saw 26 people killed across the country. AFP: Mahmud Hams Photo: An anti-Morsi protester receives medical attention during clashes with members of the Muslim Brotherhood and supporters of ousted president Mohamed Morsi near Tahrir square in Cairo, July 5, 2013. Seventeen people were killed in violence in Egypt as supporters of Mr Morsi protested his overthrow by the army, state television said, quoting Health Ministry data. Reuters: Amr Abdallah Dalsh? Photo: Supporters of deposed Egyptian president Mohammed Morsi take part in a protest during Friday prayers at the Raba el-Adwyia mosque square in Cairo, July 5, 2013. At least three protesters were shot dead on Friday outside the Republican Guard barracks in Cairo where Mr Morsi is being held, security sources said, as angry Islamist supporters confronted troops across the country. Thousands of people marched across the country in what Mr Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood movement called a Friday of Rage to protest against his ouster and an interim government set up to prepare for fresh elections. Reuters: Louafi larbi? Photo: Egyptians in Cairo hug and kiss a soldier after the army announced it would take over the country's government from president Mohammed Morsi, on July 3, 2013. AFP: Mohamed El-Shahed Photo: Members of the Muslim Brotherhood and supporters of Egypt's President Mohammed Morsi in the Raba El-Adwyia mosque square, Cairo, hold photos of Morsi after hearing the Egyptian army's statement that was read out on state TV, July 3, 2013. Egypt's armed forces overthrew Morsi and announced a political transition with the support of a wide range of political, religious and youth leaders. Read the story Reuters: Khaled Abdullah Photo: Egyptian protesters calling for the ouster of president Mohamed Morsi protest in Cairo on July 3, 2013. AFP: Mahmud Khaled Photo: Anti-Mohammed Morsi protesters set-off fireworks in Tahrir Square, Cairo July 3, 2013, after the head of Egypt's armed forces, General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, issued a declaration suspending the constitution and appointing the head of the constitutional court as interim head of state, effectively declared the removal of Morsi. Read the story Reuters: Steve Crisp Photo: Anti-Morsi protesters react in Tahrir Square in Cairo on July 3, 2013. The head of Egypt's armed forces, General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, issued a declaration on Wednesday suspending the constitution and appointing the head of the constitutional court as interim head of state, effectively removing president Mohammed Morsi from power. Reuters: Suhaib Salem Photo: Egyptian children with national flags celebrate with soldiers on an armoured personnel carrier APC in a Cairo street on July 3, 2013. AFP: Khaled Desouki Photo: Protesters ralling against Egyptian president Mohammad Morsi wave national flags in Tahrir Square in Cairo on July 3, 2013. Reuters: Mohamed Abd El Ghany Photo: Egyptians salute army tanks upon their deployment on a street leading to Cairo University on July 3, 2013. A top aide to Egypt's president Mohamed Morsi slammed what he called a military coup as an army ultimatum passed and the security forces slapped a travel ban on the Islamist leader. AFP: Khaled Desouki Photo: An Egyptian opposition protester shouts slogans as tens of thousands gather outside the Presidential Palace on July 2, 2013 calling for Egyptian president Mohammed Morsi to resign. AFP: Gianluigi Guercia Photo: Members of the Muslim Brotherhood and supporters of Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi shout slogans and wave Egyptian flags during a protest around the Raba El-Adwyia mosque square in Cairo July 2, 2013. Reuters: Mohamed Abd El Ghany Photo: Egyptian protesters calling for president Mohamed Morsi to step down gather in Cairo's Tahrir Square on July 2, 2013. AFP: Khaled Desouki Photo: Protesters in Egypt light flares as they chant slogans during demonstrations against the president Mohammed Morsi and his government, in Alexandria on July 1, 2013. Read the story AFP: Asmaa Waguih Photo: Military helicopters fly above Tahrir Square while protesters opposing Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi shout slogans against him and Brotherhood members during a protest in Cairo July 1, 2013. Five Egyptian military helicopters trailing national flags circled over Cairo on Monday after the armed forces gave politicians 48 hours to resolve a crisis over calls for the resignation of Mr Morsi. Reuters: Mohamed Abd El Ghany Photo: Opponents of Egypt's Islamist president Mohamed Morsi shout slogans while holding a giant Egyptian flag during a protest calling for his ouster outside the presidential palace in Cairo on June 30, 2013. Thousands of Morsi's opponents protested on the first anniversary of his inauguration, determined to oust him as his Islamist supporters vowed to defend his legitimacy to the end. AFP: Mahmud Khaled Photo: Egyptian protesters walk past graffiti against president Mohamed Morsi on the wall of the presidential palace in Cairo on July 1, 2013. AFP: Gianluigi Guercia Photo: Thousands of opponents of Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi pray during a protest calling for his ouster at Cairo's landmark Tahrir Square on June 30, 2013. Thousands of Mr Morsi's opponents protested on the first anniversary of his inauguration, determined to oust him as his Islamist supporters vowed to defend his legitimacy to the end. AFP: Khaled Desouki Photo: Egyptian opposition demonstrators calling for the ouster of President Mohamed Morsi sit outside the presidential palace in Cairo early on July 1, 2013. Egypt's opposition Tamarod movement which led nationwide protests against President Mohamed Morsi has given the Islamist leader a deadline of July 2 to resign, threatening a campaign of civil disobedience if he stays. AFP: Mahmud Khaled Photo: Protesters opposing Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi wave Egyptian flags and shout slogans against him and members of the Muslim Brotherhood at Tahrir square in Cairo, June 30, 2013. Reuters: Amr Abdallah Dalsh Egyptian president Mohammed Morsi has vowed to stay in power and defend constitutional legitimacy as generals worked on plans to push him aside within the day and suspend the constitution. In a defiant midnight television address responding to military demands that he share power with his opponents, Mr Morsi warned that any deviation from the democratic order approved in a series of votes last year would lead Egypt down a dangerous path. He was speaking as vast crowds of protesters rallied in central Cairo and across the nation to demand the Muslim Brotherhood politician's resignation in a third night of mass demonstrations. His supporters also turned out and 16 were killed and 200 wounded as an unidentified gunmen opened fire at a rally at Cairo University. The price of preserving legitimacy is my life, Mr Morsi said in an impassioned, repetitive, 45-minute address. Legitimacy is the only guarantee to preserve the country. The Egyptians declared to the whole world that they have elected a president in a free manner. They declared and defined their path. Mr Morsi has been locked in crisis talks with the head of the army, General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, while several of his ministers have abandoned the government. Military sources say that once a deadline set by General Sisi expires at 5:00pm on Wednesday 1:00am Thursday AEST , the military intends to install an interim council composed of civilians from different political groups and experienced technocrats, to run the country until an amended constitution is drafted. That would be followed by a new presidential election, but parliamentary polls would be delayed until strict conditions for selecting candidates were in force, they said. They would not say how the military intended to deal with Mr Morsi if he refused to go quietly, but after the president's address the high command said the army was ready to die to defend Egypt's people against terrorists and fools , in a response headlined The final hours . The Egyptian military allowed its troops yesterday to be filmed undergoing hand-to-hand combat training. It was very dramatic to look at. They were doing things like leaping onto the front of a rolling dump truck, climbing over it and jumping off the back. So the military is making sure there are images out there of them being prepared to do what's necessary on the streets if they're called upon. The confrontation has pushed the most populous Arab nation closer to the brink of chaos amid a deepening economic crisis two years after the overthrow of Hosni Mubarak, raising concern in Washington, Europe and neighbouring Israel. The liberal opposition coalition has ruled out starting negotiations with Mr Morsi, saying they are simply waiting for the expiry of the deadline. After that, their negotiator, former UN nuclear agency chief Mohamed El Baradei, would deal directly with the military. The military sources said the armed forces planned to open talks with the opposition National Salvation Front NSF and other political, religious and youth organisations after the deadline. The emerging military roadmap could be amended as a result of those consultations, they said. Among figures being considered as an interim head of state was the new president of the constitutional court, Adli Mansour. The army blueprint closely resembles proposals for a democratic transition put forward by the NSF. The military sources said the new transition arrangements would be entirely different from the military rule that followed Mubarak's fall. Then, the armed forces council held effective power but was widely criticised by liberal and left-wing politicians for failing to enact vital economic and political reforms, and siding with the Muslim Brotherhood. Senior Muslim Brotherhood leaders have branded the military ultimatum a coup , but newspapers across the political spectrum saw the military ultimatum as a turning point. Last 48 hours of Muslim Brotherhood rule, the opposition daily El Watan declared. Egypt awaits the army, said the state-owned El Akhbar. The Federal Government warns Australians against travelling to Egypt as huge crowds continue their demonstrations in Cairo's Tahrir square, while supporters of Mr Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood hold their own rallies. Protesters have blocked the gates at the presidential palace and pro- and anti-Morsi crowds have clashed in Alexandria. Footage from Tahrir Square shows more protesters have turned out than during the revolution that toppled Mubarak. Brotherhood spokeswoman Alla Mustafa is calling on patriotic Egyptians to defend their new-found democracy. Today all Egyptians patriotic will defend this people's will and the democracy that they were all dreaming to have from the revolution, he said. 	Topics: 	 	world-politics, 	 	unrest-conflict-and-war, 	 	egypt 	 First posted July 03, 2013 06:06:42