Well, over two years after the T?huku earthquake and tsunami, TEPCO officials admit that radioactive groundwater has been leaking into the nearby ocean for, well, two years. The confession came just one day after an election that brought Prime Minister Shinzo Abe?s pro-nuclear party a solid majority, and months after watchdogs raised the red flag about possible ocean contamination. Environmental experts have long feared that the contaminated water was causing damage to local marine and even human life, though TEPCO insists that the danger is low. ?Seawater data have shown no abnormal rise in the levels of radioactivity,? a TEPCO spokesperson told the press on Monday. This is all after the company denied groundwater leaking into the ocean for, again, two years. So we have to wonder: If the radioactive water is leaking into the ocean but the water?s radioactivity levels don?t raise, where does the radiation go? TEPCO officials say it?s been contained by the silt fences erected in the water around the nuclear power plant. If they?re wrong ? or obfuscating ? and it made it out, it?s entirely possible that the ocean?s carrying the radiation off to far flung places like it?s been doing tons of debris. Meanwhile, TEPCO admitted earlier this month that radiation levels in the nearby groundwater were spiking, further raising suspicion about the levels in the ocean. Despite the press conference and the apologies, this latest revelation is just the latest link on a chain of misinformation stretching all the way back to the earthquake itself. After the initial tragedy, it wasn?t just TEPCO that was fudging the truth about what was really happened at the crippled nuclear power plant. It was the Japanese government too. But now with newly elected lawmakers in place, at least the people get a little bit of the truth, dismal and destructive as it may be. [Al Jazeera] Not everyplace in Japan is contaminated, some places are safer than others bring a geiger counter? lol but there are hot particles blowing around by the wind, and they will blow around for decades until they decay to harmless levels. Internal radiation exposure is far worse than external exposure, external exposures are temporary and the emitters are not against your body tissue, whereas eating contaminated food is chronic, your body will absorb cesium, strontium and others into your organs, muscles and bones and it will stay there emitting for months/years and decades depending on what isotope you got, causing a host of medical problems. Comparing internal cesium exposure to eating potassium in a banana or comparing it to medical xrays or high altitude flights is insane! There is a reason why Fukushima residents may not be able to get cancer insurance, it'll bleed the company dry The worst thing is the gov lets children play in school playgrounds with radiation levels 200x higher than normal, and it seems some hospitals were told not to do thyroid tests on children Their reasoning is they need to balance the consequences, and muddy the data, because you can't point a finger at anyone for your cancer when it's everywhere, what's worse is they're not even checking their food for safety, out of sight out of mind... It's a shame that I can't enjoy japanese green tea anymore His point wasn't that no one has died or will die or that there is no environmental impact, of course there is and of course there was and yes still is with Chernobyl. His point was that the damage from this and Chernobyl combined comes nowhere near the damage done by the coal industry in human lives or environmental destruction , it is however much more scary because it comes in one off disaster events and has that 'invisible monster' aspect to it so it plays on peoples fears much more. While I'm not saying nuclear fallout isn't bad it is and I'm not saying the cover up surrounding this doesn't deserve attention it does all discussions need to be had in perspective and the known proven damage/death toll for coal mining/power *far* exceeds even the most extreme estimates of deaths from all the nuclear disasters to date. The fallout aspect is slightly different yes but saying there isn't long-lasting environmental changes from coal mining too in the surrounding areas isn't accurate, also saying radiation makes an area unlivable for centuries is far too broad, different radioactive substances decay at different rates and some disappear quite quickly while yes others stick around for decades or centuries and they each vary in how harmful they are to a human population in the area. For example, Hiroshima and Nagasaki the only two cities to have been directly nuked granted this will be different forms of radiation again but it's a far more destructive example have over 1.5 million people living in them combined not each today. There is good reason to avoid nuclear fallout and damn good reason to be careful about it, radiation sickness is a horrible thing as is cancer but equally important is understanding *how* dangerous something is.