The operator, Tokyo Electric Power Company, or Tepco, announced the leaks on Monday, but only after denying for weeks that radioactive water was flowing into the Pacific. The lack of transparency has renewed frustration among a public still angry at Tepco for repeatedly underplaying the dangers posed by the plant after the triple meltdown there in 2011. ?This poor communication program gives the impression of a lack of an effective decision-making process, a lack of ability of keeping the people of Japan informed, and it brings into question whether Tepco has a plan and is doing all it can to protect the environment and the people,? said Dale Klein, a nuclear expert who heads a committee hired by the utility to recommend changes in its corporate culture. The rebukes came as the company acknowledged that a reactor at the plant was again releasing radioactive steam, and said it still did not know the cause. The company first announced last week that it had spotted steam, but then said the release had stopped. Experts have said it is unlikely that the nuclear fuel is experiencing renewed fission, considered the worst-case scenario. But the release is still thought to be worrisome because it is venting radioactive materials into the air. Tepco has said the steam is not highly contaminated. Despite Mr. Klein?s criticism, he said Tepco was working hard to clean up the plant. He also said he did not believe it had deliberately covered up problems with the groundwater, though reporters have been regularly asking the utility for more information. ?From what we?ve seen, it?s more of what I?d call incompetence rather than a cover-up,? Mr. Klein said at a news conference in Tokyo after meetings with Tepco executives. He is a former chairman of the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Lady Barbara Judge, the former chairwoman of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority who also sits on Tepco?s committee, was more blunt. ?I have personally been discussing with people in Japan and outside the fact that Tepco is on a journey of being reborn as a nuclear operator,? she said. ?And to find that the communication with respect to the water problem had been so difficult and so late was devastating.? For weeks, Tepco officials had emphasized that groundwater containing high concentrations of radioactive tritium, strontium and cesium discovered in observation wells at the plant last month did not pose a threat to the nearby Pacific. The utility held its ground even after Japan?s nuclear safety chief said last week that the plant had most likely been leaking contaminated water, probably since the disaster more than two years ago. On Monday, Tepco finally disclosed that there was a leak. It also released evidence showing that the water in the wells along the shoreline was rising and falling with the tide, indicating that there was no barrier between the wells and the ocean. The company said that different sections had been in charge of varying aspects of the data and that officials had not made the connection earlier. Disclosure was also delayed while Tepco raced to first inform fishermen of the leak, said the utility?s president, Naomi Hirose, who was not in charge during the disaster. ?It?s an extreme shame,? Mr. Hirose said Friday. ?I?m filled with deep regret. We had the data but were unable to put it to use.? ?Rather than be proactive in informing the public of potential risks, we became too fearful and concerned over the effect such a major announcement would have,? he said. He added, ?If you asked whether we have adequately learned the lessons of the disaster, the answer would be that we haven?t.? In addition to the censure from foreign experts, there are mounting concerns over Tepco?s handling of cleanup at the plant, which was struck by a tsunami caused by a huge earthquake in March 2011. In recent months, Tepco has also reported leaks from tanks and pits that it uses to store contaminated groundwater that it collects from the reactors. It has also said a dangerous loss of power at one of the reactors in recent months was caused by a rat that nibbled on exposed wiring, underlining the fragility of the makeshift systems at the plant. On Wednesday, Shunichi Tanaka, the Nuclear Regulation Authority chairman, said at a news conference that Tepco needed help with a cleanup that experts acknowledge is unprecedented. ?The difficulties we face at Fukushima Daiichi are on par with the difficulties we faced in the wake of World War II,? he said. ?Tepco needs more assistance from others in Japan, me included. We cannot force everything on Tepco; that?s probably not going to solve the problem.?