8.20am. Leaving home. Mr Smudge is waiting on the stairs to say goodbye to me. He does it everyday, and he's usually waiting by the door to welcome me home at night. - Peter Jackson Peter Jackson is giving a type of live update feed from his Facebook page today. Another update just came him with him discussing his arrival at the studio which is only 5 minutes from his home. Its around 10:15 AM his time 24 July -?Atmospheric Rivers Set to Increase UK Winter Flooding : The webbots long term predicted language is still coming up with many hits. The prolonged heat wave that has bathed the UK in sunshine over the past month has given the country an unexpected taste of summer that has seemed to be missing in recent years. 25 July -?Backwards storm: Kansas lashed by 100 mph winds, and soft-ball size hail : As sunrise brings fresh light to the aftermath of strong storms in southern Kansas from Tuesday night, authorities are beginning to assess the toll. 24 July -?Scientists warn on Arctic ?economic time bomb? : The rapidly melting Arctic is an economic time bomb likely to cost the world at least $60 trillion, say researchers who have started to calculate the financial consequences of one of the world's fastest changing climates. 23 July -?Record low temperatures hit Chile as fresh snow falls in the Andes : ?Chileans braved extremely cold weather during the past few days.? Many parts of Santiago and other cities saw record low temperatures, with some areas reaching as low as 16.8 F -8.4 C . 23 July -?Brazil ? Snow in over 80 cities ? Roads and schools closed : ?Should greatly disrupt agriculture? The mass of polar air that passed through Argentina before coming to Brazil at the end of last week dropped snow in at least 87 cities of Paran?, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul. 24 July -?Nuclear-contaminated Pacific Ocean may become a global threat : It has been officially confirmed. The crippled Fukushima Nuclear Plant in Japan is leaking highly contaminated water into the Pacific Ocean. This is continuing by the minute causing great concern not only for Japan, but for all nations bordering on the Pacific Ocean, including the United States, Canada, Russia and most Pacific Island nations. Officials finally admitted this alarming news for the first time.