The head of Japan?s Nuclear Regulatory Agency NRA recently confirmed that contaminated water from the Number 3 nuclear power reactor at Fukushima has likely been leaking into the ocean for the past two years. In March of 2011, a massive earthquake and deadly tsunami ravaged much of Japan and three of the six nuclear reactors in Fukushima melted down. In a recent statement, Shunichi Tanaka, the head of the NRA, said he believes that groundwater near the plant is leaking into the basement of the damaged reactors, becoming contaminated, and eventually making its way out to sea. Neither the NRA nor TEPCO the organization that runs the Fukushima plant have been able to detect where the leak is coming from or been able to stop it. ?I think contamination of the sea is continuing to a greater or lesser extent,? Tanaka told a reporter from Reuters recently. ?It was contaminated at the time of the accident, but I think it has been continuing for the last two years. Coming up with countermeasures against all possible scenarios is a top priority.?We?ve seen for a fact that levels of radioactivity in the seawater remain high, and contamination continues?I don?t think anyone can deny that. We must take action as soon as possible.? In the past, TEPCO has been vocal in stating that contaminated water had not been leaking into the ocean. But recently, they switched positions, stating that contaminated water had indeed leaked into the sea and apologizing to the people of Fukushima. A recent radiation test conducted by TEPCO showed a soaring amount of radioactive cesium in an observation well near the damaged plant. According to TEPCO, over the course of three days this month the radiation levels in the well increased 90 fold, which brought the levels to more than 150 times Japan?s safety standard. However, recent tests of seawater were reported as normal. Hawaii?s Kekoa Bacalso, who traveled frequently to Japan in the past, has vowed not to surf anywhere near the affected area for years to come. ?Japan is such an amazing place, but when you hear that they still don?t have a handle on the radiation problems at Fukushima, you have to do a double-take. It?s been two years since the disaster and they?re just now admitting that contaminated water has been leaking into the Pacific.? exclaimed Bacalso. ?I?m baffled. I absolutely love Japan, but I won?t be surfing or traveling near Fukushima for a while because of this.? Hiromi Matsubara, executive director of the Japanese chapter of the Surfrider Foundation, describes the situation at Fukushima as dire and worries that the situation could get worse. ?Massive amounts of radioactive water is stocked inside the Fukushima Daiichi Plant. The water is primarily used?to cool the reactor. TEPCO is running out of a place to store the water and there were a few occasions when they publicly announced the possibility of intentionally discharging this contaminated water into the?ocean, but only after they adequately decreased and treated the radiation level below the legal limit,? said Matsubara. ?Obviously, local fisherman, unions, citizens, NGOs, and the Surfrider Foundation strongly opposed this plan and it has been put on hold.? For Keito Matsuoka, a Japanese surfer from the town of Sendai, the news of the ongoing problems at the reactor have forced him to lose faith in his government?s ability to handle the situation. ?I don?t know what to believe anymore. There are so many conflicting reports from the government. One day you?ll hear that the radiation levels are low, and the next you hear about the recent spike we had. The town where I?m originally from, Sendai, is located near Fukushima. And even though the government says that it?s safe to go in the area, I don?t trust them. I can?t surf my home break more than a few times every month because I?m scared of the radiation.? First, my thoughts and prayers go out to the people, families, and surfers of Japan still affected by this terrible and ongoing disaster. But there needs to be some kind of accountability national, or, if need be, international for Japanese corpo giant TEPCO for continually ignoring the warning signs at Fukushima leading up to the tsunami. Not to mention their obfuscation/piss-poor management of the nuclear disaster after the tsunami. Maybe it?s the fact that I grew up in the age of widespread corporate malfeasance, but I do not believe a word TEPCO says. I wouldn?t be surprised if they knew all along that they were leaking radiated water, but they just couldn?t figure out how to fix it. I?m sure an uninformed public is much better for their bottom line than an informed public. When corporations prioritize profits over accountability, terrible things happen. And this time, it?s happening on a global scale, which affects all of us. All this is a roundabout way of asking, does anyone know the effects Fukushima?s ocean radiation will have on California coastal waters now/in the future? Anyone know Surfrider?s stance on Fukushima ocean radiation reaching California shores? ????????????????????????????????????????? Trystan really nails it in terms of explaining the chain of blame as it were. GE built those reactors. One of the engineers who worked on the Japanese project install originally, is in our group. What he explained regarding intent then, when some were strongly suggesting the reactors not be placed in the flood plain, was to no effect. Ironically, Fukushima was to be shut down. A newer plant was to go online soon, up coast from that location They still did it there and beyond. This is all a part of doing business based on short term profit and election cycles rather than long arc risk assessment and investment strategies. We really ought to examine how we regulate and manage business structure. This would solve some of the issues that become large scale problems in event of oversight and incident. This was ALL done under what many consider to be strict Regulatory Control. Hard to regulate a flawed system and expect that regulation will fix a crack in the design theory. This is no longer a Japanese business/government problem. It is an international problem because it is going to contaminate the ocean around Japan with radioactive water/waste, and the ocean currents, as we know, will spread it around the world. An international task force must be put in place immediately, because TEPCO is basically wishing this away when it is clear that it is already out of control. They have not been able to stop the meltdown, and they have no where to put the huge amounts radioactive water from trying to cool the reactors, and the amount of water isn?t disposable already. The world needs to face this fact, because the radioactive tubes/material is going to burn down into the earth and into their water supplies, and the cooling water is going to go into the ocean. This is a disaster far far more serious that what happened with the BP Gulf oil tower, because radioactive waste is far more dangerous. This event should be in e headlines of every paper in the world, because actually, we have never faced a problem like this. The media is ignoring it because nuclear power advocates have power and money and don?t want this in the headlines. TEPCO executives should all be arrested, and a UN team has got to find a way to defuse this. Look, I am no expert, but at the same time I know enough to put 2 and 2 together, and they add up to 0. dgb Look. Only 52% of the population voted ? the third lowest rate since the end of the 2nd world war. The Japanese public have voted in the same party that has controlled Japan since 1955, except for a 3 year period at the end of US occupation and the 3 year period from 2009 to 2012; the same party that built Japan?s 52 reactors, some very cleverly on seismic faults; the same party that, as policy, plans to restart the 50 reactors that are currently offline, despite the fact that with only two online and record summer temperatures, there have been no electrical shortages this summer. Let?s face it, the Japanese are sending a very strong message?and that message is they don?t care. K stands for potassium. Potassium-40 is a natural radioisotope, half-life 1.28 billion years, long enough that an atom the Earth incorporated when it formed decayed just now in your left hand. 134Cs and 137Cs stand for the two cesium radioisotopes that got out of Fukushima. How could there not be one? Would TEPCO management say there was one if there wasn?t? Yes, they might. Keep in mind that the Japanese government is making billions of dollars on natural gas revenue that it wasn?t making before the Fukushima meltdowns. They gave it an excuse to shut down its citizens? nuclear power stations, and it often parachutes senior civil servants into management positions at nuclear utilities, where they say damaging things. Damaging to their supposed employers, helpful to the government to which they are truly allied. Thanks for covering this topic. It?s much bigger than saving trestles. This is about saving much of the North Pacific surf spots and the food chain for billions of people over the foreseeable future. It?s mind blowing how this is a subdued and-yet-much-bigger-than Chernobyl event, but no media covers it and people shrug it off. BUT ANYWAY, it?s pretty dire that contaminated cooling-water storage is running out. Anyone in Japan familiar with the power of hemp?! I?m sure. Cap those tanks hydroponic style and/or transform the radioactive leachfields with industrial hemp crops to absorb and break down the radioactive particles before it gets into their aquifers if it hasn?t already or at least this avoids having to dump that water in the Pacific which is a mind numbing consideration of theirs?a crime against humanity IMO . Creative solutions are needed. Hemp is a simple solution read http://www.hemp.net/news/9901/06/hemp_eats_chernobyl_waste.html for related story; this guy talks about it too http://www.examiner.com/article/could-hemp-help-nuclear-clean-up-japan . Although creativity and simplicity are next to impossible avenues of action for big bureaucratic institutions like first-world governments and among most engineers a la the NRC . The public has to get pissed! There is far too much inaction on the most important environmental issues ever faced by humanity, and yet everyone keeps sh**ting out kids without considering the world they are leaving them. You guys are a bit late on the gun here. This disaster features three reactor cores that melted down initially, went to groundwater and began flushing the marine environment with multiple radiant contaminants. Recent developments indicate there is even more going on that has different and greater ramifications. With regard to the stored contamination laden water. That began to be jettisoned two months ago. Testing personnel died instantaneously on site at the storage facility. Keep in mind that the Tohoku quake occurred April 7, 2011, so this incident has been seeding the two currents which the Fukushima Daichi plant is at the headwaters for, since that time. You do well to tell people about this but it is far greater in threat than many may realize. I do work for a BioTech company that was contacted to develop a means of remediating heavy metal nuclear contaminant out of the water column which we actually succeeded in doing with our NASA affiliates. Unfortunately Japan and the US based NRC and State Dept had no real intention of deploying it due to some rather complex political and monetary issues. Bottom line. Permanent damage. Further bad news? 17 of these type reactors are located in the coastal flood plain of the US East coast out of a total of 33 Plutonium-Uranium fueled reactors. During Sandy, a NOTHING storm Cat 0-1 6 reactors went to emergency shut down and four went to crises. Wakey wakey! It can get a lot worse. The potential for a high Cat storm is always there and our Municipalities and State Regs try to account for this, but sometimes development plans do not jibe with Meteorologic potentiality, as they are shorter term, money based things. Since we have not experienced a lot of massive Nuclear POwer Station failure events, people assume everything is ?okay?. It is not okay. It is high risk Sandy will have changed a lot of lives. Hopefully it will shift how we architect coastal development. But were it Cat 3 or 4 or out of Cat as it hit the power stations, the damage would have a high probability of being rather long term and course through the entire Northern Hemisphere damaging food security on a global scale.