Tokyo Electric Power Co. TEPCO finally admitted on July 22 that radiation-tainted water has been seeping from the crippled Fukushima No. 1 nuclear plant into the sea. Highly contaminated water was first found in an existing observation well at the nuclear plant on June 3. On numerous occasions since then, an increase in radiation levels had been measured in the sea and high concentrations of radioactive materials were detected in a new observation well, raising suspicions of leaks. But in an opinion on the cause of the increased levels, TEPCO had previously explained, ?When contaminated water leaked from the vicinity of an intake of the No. 2 reactor in April 2011, right after the outbreak of the nuclear accident, some of it remained in the ground. We haven?t seen any significant impact on the environment.? Contaminated water has continued to accumulate at a rate of 400 metric tons per day as a result of groundwater entering damaged reactor buildings at the Fukushima plant. As of July 16, roughly 75,000 tons of water had accumulated in the No. 1-4 rector buildings. To reduce the amount of water building up, TEPCO initially planned to release groundwater that had not yet been contaminated into the sea, thereby limiting the amount of groundwater entering the reactor buildings. However, small amounts of radioactive materials were detected in the groundwater, and local fisheries cooperatives objected to the plan due to fears it would spark harmful rumors about local marine resources. In the end the plan was derailed. Now, having admitted to a leak of contaminated water, the fishing industry?s trust in TEPCO could diminish further. The Nuclear Regulation Authority NRA pointed out this month that there were strong suspicions contaminated water had seeped into the sea. NRA Chairman Shunichi Tanaka stated, ?Contamination of the sea, to a greater or lesser extent, is continuing,? suggesting it was possible that contaminated water that had leaked from reactor buildings had mixed with groundwater and was flowing toward the sea. On July 22, TEPCO finally released its analysis of data on the sea level and the water level in a buried observation well near the sea. This overturned previous views on the situation. The company had reported the data to the NRA on July 18. Seiji Abe, a Kansai University professor familiar with public utilities, criticized TEPCO?s handling of the situation. ?Its response damaged trust that urgently needed to be restored, and its actions were extremely problematic,? he said. ?The company still probably hasn?t come to the realization that the monopoly it has had has created a wide gap between its reasoning and the public?s demands.? The government has been involved in creating a roadmap to decommission the damaged reactors at the Fukushima plant. However, it has not had a direct hand in any onsite work. ?TEPCO is the one that?s working on the scene,? an official from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry commented. On the evening of July 22, Takeshi Takahashi, chief of the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear plant stabilization center, visited officials at the Fukushima Prefectural Government headquarters including Tetsuya Hasegawa, head of the living environment department, and explained the leaks. ?We apologize for causing concern. We?ll take measures to prevent further leaks into the sea,? Takahashi said. Hasegawa responded with a demand that TEPCO take proper measures to stop radioactive materials leaking into the sea and identify the cause of the leak.