Finland has announced controversial new plans to build a nuclear reactor in cooperation with Russian firm Rosatom. The nuclear reactor will be built on the condition that Finland maintains an energy partnership with Russia over the coming years. Sampo Terho, who is an MEP for Finland and a substitute member of parliament?s industry, research and energy committee, said, ?I welcome Fortum taking a stake in Fennovoima nuclear power plant project as positive news, which hopefully will help to advance the project?. He added that ?nuclear power is an important part of the efforts to achieve the EU?s climate targets and this project is a step in the right direction?. Last October, member states agreed to work to reduce EU domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 per cent below the 1990 levels by 2030, and to increase the share of renewable energy to at least 27 per cent of the EU?s energy consumption by 2030. The project has posed concerns due to Russia?s involvement, among deepening tensions between the country and the EU as the conflict in Ukraine rages on. The strained relations between Russia and the EU have caused observers ? including former council president Herman van Rompuy ? to worry that Europe?s gas and energy supplies may be in jeopardy, as most of it is streamlined through Russia. According to Eurostat data, in 2012, 33.7 per cent of the EU?s crude oil, 32 per cent of natural gas and 25.9 per cent of solid fuels were imported from Russia. The commission has repeatedly expressed its hope for more energy security in Europe, and for the EU to produce more of its energy rather than relying on third countries. Last March, EU leaders asked the commission to come up with a plan to reduce the union?s energy dependence, especially to Russia. Greens/EFA group co-president Rebecca Harms described the plans as ?very regrettable?. She insisted that ?the decision to build a new nuclear reactor is wrong; with a Russian partner, it is even worse, given the current situation in eastern Europe?. The German deputy said, ?seen from a European perspective the manoeuvre is totally contrary to the EU?s energy security goals, which aim to cut the EU?s damaging dependency on Russian energy?. This is not the first time Rosatom has worked closely with a European firm, as it had previously teamed up with British company Rolls-Royce to assess the feasibility of introducing Russian nuclear reactor technology to the UK market. Out of the total fund, 32 billion yen ?0.20bn will be spent creating a wall of frozen earth around the reactor ? using pipes filled with coolant ? to prevent groundwater coming into contact with the contaminated water used to cool the reactor. The remaining 15 billion yen ?0.10bn will go on an improved water treatment system to reduce radiation levels in the contaminated water used for cooling. Researchers at MIT claim that replacing the metal cladding around fuel rods in water-cooled nuclear reactors with a special ceramic could cut the risk of explosion. At Fukushima in 2011, the radiation leak may have been caused after explosions of hydrogen gas built up inside some of the reactors. The hydrogen build-up was the result of hot steam coming into contact with overheated nuclear fuel rods covered by a cladding of zirconium alloy, or ?zircaloy?. This is the material used as fuel-rod cladding in all water-cooled nuclear reactors. Water-cooled reactors are used at more than nine in ten of the world?s power reactors. When it gets hot enough, zircaloy reacts with steam to produce hydrogen, a hazard in any loss-of-coolant nuclear accident, say the researchers. They believe their alternative ? a ceramic compound called silicon carbide SiC ? could provide similar protection for nuclear fuel, while cutting the risk of hydrogen production by roughly a thousandfold. Tests of their new cladding material, are described in the journal??Nuclear Technology?. Before this the National Grid will build a ?test line? of T-pylons at its training centre in Eakring although a spokesperson couldn?t confirm when this would happen. ?The debate saw a restrained approach from France?s huge state-controlled nuclear industry, dominated by Areva and EDF. For its part, the government research organisation CEA favoured the increased use of electricity to substitute for oil and gas but was bound to Hollande?s line that nuclear power?s share of generation should be 50%. CEA said France should maintain the same number of nuclear reactors, implying a long period for the ?transition? to take place. On the front line of potential nuclear closures is Fessenheim, a two unit power plant on the German border that happens to be the oldest in France. EDF thickened Fessenheim 1?s concrete basemat to secure regulatory permission to operate past June 2013, and must do the same for unit 2, but the plant remains under threat from Hollande who promised to order its closure before the end of his term in 2016. Participating on behalf of itself and three other business groups,Mouvement des Entreprises de France MEDEF , said the debate was inconclusive: ?Issues of objectives, paths and funding remain fully open after eight months of debate. It is up to the legislator to clarify, set the course and the rules whose stability is fundamental for economic actors that will implement the energy transition.?For this transition to be successful, it must be part of the European and international context with threefold aims,? said MEDEF, ?competitiveness, security of supply and climate change ? fields in which France is known for its performance.?France currently sources 75% of its electricity from a fleet of nuclear reactors developed after a 1970s decision to increase energy security.?About 15% of electricity comes from renewables and only 10% from fossil sources, resulting in carbon dioxide emissions per kWh of 79 grams ? far lower than the EU average of 429 grams.