Fukushima?? continues to be ? not good. Tepco after 2 years of denial, admits that radioactive water has been , and is, leaking into the sea. ?Fishing authorities and marine biologists warn of it entering the food chain. Steam envelops Fukushima Daiichi nuclear reactor No 3. Cause not yet known. UK:?Survey shows UK government?out of step with public, on nuclear?power ?? surprise again ? older men are pro nuclear, women and young people anti nuclear. Date: July 22, 2013 ?It was quite shocking,? he told NHK. ? Tepco?s explanation is totally different from the one in the past.? S ee also:?NYT: Fukushima plant leaking for past 2 years? Japan Times: Groundwater is reaching sea ? Reuters: Growing alarm, problems mounting ? Official: If you have solutions, we?d like to know ? WSJ: No ?immediate? health threat Kyodo, July 23, 2013:[? Tepco] said Tuesday it has confirmed ?something like steam? is coming out of the No. 3 reactor building again [?Tepco] said one of its monitoring cameras showed what appeared to be steam coming out of the building?s fifth floor just above the reactor container at around 9:05 a.m. Tuesday. The steam continued to be seen at 10:30 a.m. ?[?] TEPCO has suspended work to remove rubble at the reactor building due to the apparent steam emission, they said. Washington Post,July 23, 2013: [?] Tepco also said in an e-mailed statement today that steam from an unknown source that was first spotted near the fifth floor of the Fukushima plant?s No. 3 reactor building on July 18 was seen again this morning. [?] The Australian, July 23, 2013 h/t?RadChick : Fukushima reactor site engulfed by steam [?] Workers at the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan have reported steam inside a battered reactor building for the second time in less than a week. The operator said today steam was seen around the fifth floor of the building housing Reactor No 3 shortly after 9am [?] Steam was spotted in the same area on Thursday [?] with TEPCO saying it did not know for sure what had caused it. [?] TEPCO Press Release, July 23, 2013: Steam Found Near the Central Part of the Fifth Floor Equipment Storage Pool Side of Unit 3 Reactor Building at Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station Follow-up Information 9 [?] This is a follow-up report on the statuses of steam found wafting through the air near the central part of the fifth floor equipment storage pool side of Unit 3 on July 18. At around 9:05 AM today July 23 , we found steam coming from near the central part of the fifth floor equipment storage pool side of Unit 3 by a camera. [?] The steam is continuously wafting through the air as of 10:30 AM. We will continue to monitor the status closely. Tokyo Electric Power Co., which operates the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant, also came under fire Monday for not disclosing earlier that the number of plant workers with thyroid radiation exposures exceeding threshold levels for increased cancer risks was 10 times what it said released earlier. The delayed announcements underscored the criticisms the company has faced over the Fukushima crisis. TEPCO has been repeatedly blamed for overlooking early signs, and covering up or delaying the disclosure of problems and mishaps. Continue reading ? UN rubbishes Malawi?s Paladin uranium deal, fertilizer subsidy? By?Hudson Mphande, Nyasa Times?July 23,??2013??United Nations Special Raportuer on the Right to Food Olivier De Schutter who was in Malawi for an assessment of the food situation in the country has rubbished Kayerekera uranium mine deal between Malawi and Australian Paladin Mining Company saying the Southern African country has had a raw deal that is robbing the poor. ?Mining companies are exempt from customs duty, excise duty, value added taxes on mining machinery, plant and equipment. They can also sign special deals on the rate of royalty owed to the government. I believe that there are more reasons that investors would come to Malawi without such incentives,? he said. De Schutter was addressing journalists in the capital Lilongwe at the end of his 11-day tour of the country. He bemoaned that due to illicit financial flows, tax envasion as well as tax incentives that the country offer to both domestic and foreign companies currently Malawi was failing to get maximum use of its resources. De Schutter said that revenue losses from special tax incentives to Paladin Africa Mining alone are estimated at almost K67 billion US$205 milion since the mine started its operations and could reach almost K92 billion US$281 million over its13-year lifespan. ?Paladin alone is costing the budget more than US$20 million almost K8 billion a year in taxes,? he said. He added: ?I am convinced that unless combined with a comprehensive enhancement and optimisation of tax revenue, current macro-economic reforms may not have substantive positive impacts. There is need for Malawi to examine its national tax laws and policies towards preventing illicit capital flight. As mining develops, Malawi can simply not afford business-as-usual.? The UN Special Raportuer said it is estimated that the country has lost over 10 percent of its growth domestic product GDP to illicit outflows and tax evasion over the period 1980 to 2009??.. high rate of birth defects has confounded Washington health officials, who have been unable to identify a cause. URANIUM MINING: THE SCARY THINGS I?VE LEARNT..?Social Journalism??BY SAFFI KEREZSY ? 02 JUL 2013?Several news reports quoted that 150,000 litres of contaminated water was being leaked from the mine daily. This figure was from a CSIRO report. So after reading these news stories, I began searching for the original report to discuss in my assignment. I read through pages and pages of CSIRO publications and found nothing. It turns out the report was never released to the public. It was commissioned by ERA. I then found the Supervising Scientist Annual Reports. That is, the government-appointed scientist which was implemented when Ranger was first approved in order to protect the Kakadu environment. From what I can gather, the main ?problem? ?with the reporting process is that the Supervising Scientist reports often report that despite incidents, it is concluded that ?no environmental damage has been recorded off the immediate mine site?, or words to that effect. I also found a quote from the International Union for Conservation of Nature which said that ?there had been more than 110 pollution incidents and numerous breaches of environmental requirements at the mine?. Obviously there was a lot of debate from various stakeholders, particularly the traditional owners within Kakadu and Greens Senator Scott Ludlam.