The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have announced their newborn son is to be called George Alexander Louis. He will be officially known as His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge, a spokesman for the couple announced. The Prince of Cambridge, who is the third in line to the throne, was born at St Mary?s Hospital in west London on Monday. Kensington Palace said in a short statement: ?The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are delighted to announce that they have named their son George Alexander Louis. ?The baby will be known as His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge.? MORE:?Why did the?Duke and Duchess name their son George?? The name George is synonymous with British kings. Six King Georges have worn the crown throughout history including George I, the first Hanoverian King of Great Britain in 1714. The last British King to be named George was George VI ? Queen Elizabeth?s father and the newly named Prince George?s great great grandfather. His first name was actually Albert and he was known to his family as ?Bertie?, but he selected George ? his fourth name ? to use as sovereign. There has only been one other Prince of Cambridge and he was also called George. The name Louis is likely to be a tribute to Lord Louis Mountbatten, the Duke of Edinburgh?s uncle and the last British Viceroy of India before independence in 1947. Mountbatten and William?s father the Prince of Wales were very close, with Charles confiding in his relative. He was known by the Royal Family as Uncle Dickie and was assassinated by the IRA in August 1979. William and Kate left hospital with the newborn prince yesterday before heading to their Kensington Palace residence. They headed to the?Middleton family home in Bucklebury earlier today.? George was the longstanding favourite among bookmakers to be the Prince of Cambridge?s name, followed by James at 4/1 and Alexander at 9/1. Royal baby name betting is believed to have topped ?1million, with bookmakers Coral calling it the biggest non-sporting betting event in its history. William Hill said that George had been by far and away the best backed boys? name and ended as the 2/1 favourite ahead of James and Louis. William Hill spokesman Joe Crilly said: ?George has been incredibly popular with our punters in the last 24 to 48 hours. ?We are paying out a six figure sum to winning punters but the royal baby betting has been so popular that we have enough to get in a bottle of bubbly to wet the baby?s head tonight.? The royal couple waited two days to announce their baby?s name, saying they wanted a chance to get to know their first child. The?Prince of Cambridge made his public debut last night in the arms of his parents, already appearing to offer a ?royal wave?. The Duke and Duchess left hospital cradling the new third in line to the throne and joking about his hair, his ?tardiness?, his crying and his first nappy change. Prince William promised to remind his first son in later life about how he kept so many waiting. He also said the boy had more hair than his dad, ?thank God?, and took his looks from the Duchess, though she demurred. The Duke?s first words to the waiting world were: ?He?s got a good pair of lungs on him, that?s for sure. ?He?s a big boy, quite heavy. We?re still working on a name. We?ll have it as soon as we can.? The Duchess said the occasion was ?very emotional?, adding: ?It?s such a special time. Any parent sort of knows what this feeling feels like.?