Top Islamist gets death for war crimes in Bangladesh Dhaka, July 17 A top leader of the fundamentalist Jamaat-e-Islami party was sentenced to death today by a special Bangladeshi tribunal for committing crimes against humanity and unleashing ruthless militias on unarmed intellectuals during the country's 1971 liberation war. Jamaat-e-Islami secretary general Ali Ahsan Mohammad Mojaheed L waves from a police vehicle in Dhaka on Wednesday. ? AFP Taliban urge Malala to return, join madrassa Islamabad, July 17 Days after Malala Yousufzai made a passionate appeal at the UN for the education of children, the Taliban today asked the teenage activist to return to Pakistan and join a madrassa in the restive northwest. Brother of Afghan national security adviser shot dead Herat Afghanistan July 17 Gunmen assassinated a brother of Afghanistan's national security adviser Rangin Dadfar Spanta outside a public bathhouse in the family's relatively peaceful home province today, the police said. Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula AQAP has confirmed the death in a US drone strike of its deputy leader Saeed al-Shehri, whose killing has been announced a number of times by Yemeni authorities. Mandela makes 'dramatic' progress Nelson Mandela has made dramatic progress, and may be going home anytime soon, said his daughter Zindzi on the eve of his 95th birthday. 8 hostage cops swapped for three jailed ultras in Pak In an embarrassing swap, the Punjab Police released three men of the banned Lashkar-i-Jhangvi LJ ? Bashir Bakhrani, Ishaq Changwani and Razzaq Changwani ? in exchange for eight policemen held hostage by Chotu Mazari, a most-wanted member of LJ. Oz duo sentenced for racially abusing Sikh driver Melbourne, July 17 A couple has been sentenced by an Australian court to nine months in jail for a racially motivated attack in which a Sikh taxi driver's turban was ripped off. Dhaka, July 17 A top leader of the fundamentalist Jamaat-e-Islami party was sentenced to death today by a special Bangladeshi tribunal for committing crimes against humanity and unleashing ruthless militias on unarmed intellectuals during the country's 1971 liberation war. Sixty-five-year-old Jamaat-e-Islami JI secretary general Ali Ahsan Mohammad Mojaheed was given death penalty by the International Crimes Tribunal-2, two days after JI's 91-year-old supremo Ghulam Azam was sentenced to 90 years in jail. He will be hanged by neck till he is dead, Justice Obaidul Hassan, the chairman of the three-member panel of judges pronounced, reading out the operative part of the verdict in a jam-packed courtroom here. Mojaheed, initially looked expressionless as he was brought to the dock but appeared shocked as the judge handed down the punishments. Hassan said five of the seven charges brought against Mojaheed were proved beyond doubt and the court sentenced him to death on two counts for personal involvement in the killings of several pro-liberation activists. Mojaheed was the second in command of the infamous Al Badr militia forces, manned mainly by Jamaat's then student wing. Al Badr had systematically killed leading Bengali intelligentsia during the liberation war and acted as an elite auxiliary force of the Pakistani troops. ? PTI Taliban urge Malala to return, join madrassa Islamabad, July 17 Days after Malala Yousufzai made a passionate appeal at the UN for the education of children, the Taliban today asked the teenage activist to return to Pakistan and join a madrassa in the restive northwest. Adnan Rashid, a Taliban fighter wanted for an attempt to assassinate former President Pervez Musharraf, wrote a letter to Malala, who was shot in the head in a militant attack last year. I advise you to come back home, adopt the Islamic and Pashtun culture, join any female Islamic madrassa near your hometown, study and learn the book of Allah, use your pen for Islam and the plight of Muslim ummah and reveal the conspiracy of the tiny elite who want to enslave the whole humanity for their evil agendas in the name of a new world order, Rashid wrote. The over 2,000-word letter was dated July 15 but it was not immediately clear from where it was issued. It was released to the media today. Rashid, a former air force personnel, tried to justify the attack on 16-year-old Malala by claiming that she was involved in an anti-Taliban campaign . Taliban never attacked you because of going to school, he wrote. Taliban believe that you were intentionally writing against them and running a smear campaign to malign their efforts to establish Islamic system in Swat and your writings were provocative, he added. ? PTI Brother of Afghan national security adviser shot dead Herat Afghanistan July 17 Gunmen assassinated a brother of Afghanistan's national security adviser Rangin Dadfar Spanta outside a public bathhouse in the family's relatively peaceful home province today, the police said. The Taliban claimed responsibility for the killing of Wali Jaan, a public prosecutor in the small town of Karukh in the western province of Herat which borders Iran. Today at around 8.30 am, Wali Jaan, the brother of Dr Spanta, was gunned down. He was attacked by two persons on a motorbike as he came out of a public bath, Herat police spokesman Abdul Rauf Ahmadi said. The attackers fled the area, he added. Herat police chief Rahmatullah Safi confirmed the killing but gave no further details. Taliban spokesman, Yousuf Ahmadi called AFP from an unknown location and said the insurgent militia was responsible. This person, who has worked with the government over the past four years, was killed in a guerrilla attack by one of our mujahideen in Herat, Ahmadi said. He was a key government official, he added. Spanta is one of the most influential people in the Western-backed government. He served as Foreign Minister before becoming national security adviser to President Hamid Karzai. Taliban insurgents have carried out attacks in Herat since the 2001 US-led invasion brought down their regime in Kabul, but most of their activity is concentrated elsewhere. ? AFP Drone strike kills Qaida deputy leader in Yemen Sanaa, July 17 Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula AQAP has confirmed the death in a US drone strike of its deputy leader Saeed al-Shehri, whose killing has been announced a number of times by Yemeni authorities. Sheikh Saeed al-Shehri, aka Abu Sufyan al-Azdi, was killed in a US drone strike, said Ibrahim al-Rubaish, a leader of Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, in a video posted on Islamist websites today. Ibrahim al-Rubaish gave no indication of when Shehri was killed. Shehri had been hounded by Yemen's security forces and had survived a number of attempts on his life. His death has been announced several times by the Yemeni authorities, most recently on January 24. In April, AQAP released an audio message purported to be a newly-delivered address by Shehri. Last October, Shehri himself denied a September announcement by Yemen's Defence Ministry that he had been killed in an army raid, in an audio message posted on extremist Internet forums. An official Yemeni statement in January called him one of the Al-Qaida leaders who played a major role in the planning of local, regional and international terrorist acts . It said he was the military commander of terrorist elements during deadly clashes with the army in the southern Abyan province, which Islamist rebels largely controlled for a year before Yemeni forces recaptured it in June 2012. ? AFP Mandela makes 'dramatic' progress Johannesburg, July 17 Nelson Mandela has made dramatic progress, and may be going home anytime soon, said his daughter Zindzi on the eve of his 95th birthday. I visited him yesterday and he was watching television with headphones, said Zindzi Mandela in an interview with Britain's Sky TV. He gave us a huge smile and raised his hand ... He responds with his eyes and his hands. Mandela is gaining energy and strength, said his daughter. I should think he will be going home anytime soon. Mandela has been in a Pretoria hospital since June 8 and officials say his condition is critical but stable. ? PTI 8 hostage cops swapped for three jailed ultras in Pak In an embarrassing swap, the Punjab Police released three men of the banned Lashkar-i-Jhangvi LJ ? Bashir Bakhrani, Ishaq Changwani and Razzaq Changwani ? in exchange for eight policemen held hostage by Chotu Mazari, a most-wanted member of LJ. Member of Provincial Assembly Atif Mazari had struck the deal with Chotu Mazari?s aide Patt Umrani and secured the swap. Earlier on Monday, Chotu?s gang had released three abducted civilians on the receipt of Rs 2 million ransom. The LJ is an extremist outfit accused of series of bomb blasts, suicide attacks and kidnappings for ransom. It mainly targets Shias across the country and is believed to be responsible for the massacre of Hazara community in Balochistan. Opponents of Sharifs, in particular Punjab CM Shahbaz Sharif, blame them for links with the LJ and for securing its support in the elections. The LJ also has a mutual cooperation arrangement with terrorist organisation Tehrike Taliban Pakistan. The Punjab Police hostages were released in the early hours of Tuesday at an pre-determined location. The police said their prime objective was to secure the release of the eight officials. They insisted that no other demand made by Chotu Mazari had been fulfilled. Oz duo sentenced for racially abusing Sikh driver Melbourne, July 17 A couple has been sentenced by an Australian court to nine months in jail for a racially motivated attack in which a Sikh taxi driver's turban was ripped off. Angeline Kim Sollitt, 44, and Michael John Arbouin, 40, were handed down the nine-month prison-term for the unprovoked and malicious attack on taxi driver Jagroop Singh, 'NTNews' reported. The turban is the crowning glory of the Sikhs. For Sikhs, the head and the turban are sacred. These must not be touched or insulted in any way, Judge Stephen Southwood said. ? PTI Russia-US ties more important than Snowden, says Putin Moscow: President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday said Moscow's relations with Washington outweighed the squabbles over fugitive US intelligence leaker Edward Snowden, who has applied for asylum in Russia. But Putin also defended Moscow's right to an ?independent? foreign policy after the US renewed calls for the extradition of Snowden, who is seeking to evade espionage charges for leaking details of a vast US surveillance programme. ? AFP Fake papers: Singapore jails 3 Indians Singapore: Three Indians were among 25 foreigners who were sentenced up to four weeks in prison by a Singaporean Court for submitting forged documents in order to obtain work permits. The city state's Manpower Ministry said on Wednesday that all of them submitted forged academic certificates to apply for work passes, as they did not possess required university degree. ? PTI PayPal credits man $92 quadrillion! New York: Oops! PayPal, the online money-transfer company, has accidentally credited a man in Delaware a whopping $92,233,720,368,547,800, making him by far the richest man in the world. Chris Reynolds said he was shocked when he received his monthly statement via e-mail from PayPal last week, with an ending balance of $92 quadrillion, over a million times richer than the world's richest man, Carlos Slim. ? PTI Queen approves gay marriage Bill in UK London: Queen Elizabeth II gave her assent to the Same Sex Couples Bill here on Wednesday, officially legalising gay marriages in England and Wales. The first same-sex marriages can now take place by mid-2014 after the new measures became law. ? PTI British Indian actor goes missing London: Scotland Yard has issued an appeal for British Indian actor Paul Bhattacharjee after he went missing in mysterious circumstances following a rehearsal for a stage production in London?s West End. The 53-year-old is best known for his turn in the James Bond film Casino Royale . He also uses the name Gautam Paul Bhattacharjee and is a popular stage and television actor in Britain. ? PTI