The United States is experiencing a remarkable moment?a moment that seems unique to this nation's curious combination of values. The world was watching the trial of George Zimmerman, the self-appointed neighborhood watchman that shot and killed 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. Over the weekend, the verdict came down, and a six-woman jury found Zimmerman not guilty of second degree murder and acquitted him of manslaughter. With the verdict, the nation has taken a magnifying glass to the values of citizen justice, citizen policing and the right to bear arms. The ruling has also brought up questions of our expectations of security, the right to a trial and the judgement of a jury. With this unique collision, values, rights and laws are all set amidst the equally unique tension and unresolved conflict of race in America. Joining The Takeaway to discuss the legal aspects of the verdict and its impact on the justice system is Sherrilyn Ifill, University of Maryland law professor and President of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund. Though the verdict has shed a spotlight on the legal system, it has also raised important issues for families of color. For many black families with sons who may look like Tryavon Martin, there have been important conversations at the dinner table over the past year since the shooting and death of Martin?but now that dialogue has changed since Zimmerman was acquitted. Two guests tell us about the conversations they've been having frequently with their children. Joining The Takeaway to discuss the impacts of the verdict for black families is Lamar Tyler, founder of Black And Married With Kids.com, and Christy Oglesby, quality assurance manager for CNN?and mother of a 13-year-old-son. Jacob's statement below MAY just be the predominant view of a large segment of non-black America. That African-Americans are and have always been some kind of plague on this society. That regardless of nearly 100 years of near-apartheid tactics by OUR society, black folk simply are not capable of becoming good citizens. Jacob's view might also conclude that only a few blacks do make it out but deep inside are still, as Jacob says, just animals . It might just be that after 250+ years of this minority group, who have fought and died for this country and added a very much needed infusion of culture that's made America even greater, is still considered by most of us as simply animals. Toward the end of this program the host, John Hockenberry, asked his guests if they now look to their neighbors and those in their neighborhoods and wonder if one or the other of their neighbors is a George Zimmerman . This was absolutely disgraceful and, although I admit this was the first time I recall having heard his broadcast, I will never again listen to his show and it once again displays the blatant bias of NPR in general. George Zimmerman has been under the microscope relentlessly regarding this matter and the possible influence of racism in the shooting and the FBI has concluded there is no evidence of such bias in his actions, yet this host has chosen to turn the name George ZImmerman into an adjective, the equivalent of the term racist. Mr. Hockenberry is a prime example of the travesty that has become of American journalism. AMERICA FAILED? Yes, under the black President, America failed to deliver any meaningful civil rights improvements to the black community. If the T. Martin's case was an isolated one, no one would have wasted their single tear, but America's jails are filled with millions of Martins, and thousand of Martins have been mercilessly killed with minor fault or no fault. If Obama and so called other white and non-white Organizations, who are shedding their crocodile tears for the last 2 days on this event, really would like to correct the failure of our Court system; they should force the Congress and Senate to form a high level civil rights Commission to inquire the defects of the Court system including unlawful and racial arrest, killings and punishing of black and Latino youths, and stop filling our jails with these unfortunate human beings. Most of Florida is still the Old South . The state's constitution until recently prohibited Asians from owning property. There was the Florida Terror period of the 1950s. The Klan was largest in this state during the last century and continues to be active here. The stand-your-ground law was specifically created to defend the southern gentleman from prosecution if he shot a black man. There are still many cities with 60+ year old ordinances that make it difficult or costly for the [traditionally poor] blacks to move into or live in those cities. The state is so racially charged that even immigrants like Cubans and other Latins who come from a racially mixed nations have been treating African Americans with derision and scorn. THIS is FLORIDA. Bienvenidos, as long as you're not dark-skinned.