A Florida jury found George Zimmerman not guilty Saturday night in the shooting death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin ? triggering a storm of outrage among civil rights activists. 	The 29-year-old neighborhood watch volunteer barely reacted after the verdict was read at 9:59 p.m. 	His face nearly blank, Zimmerman merely shook the hands of one of his lawyers. It wasn?t until three minutes later that he cracked a smile. 	Outside the Seminole County Courthouse, supporters of Martin?s family cried out, ?No! No!? 	The Rev. Al Sharpton blasted the verdict, calling it a ?slap in the face to those who believe in justice.? 	?I think that this is an atrocity,? he added. ?It is probably one of the worst situations that I have seen.? 	?We are outraged and heartbroken over today?s verdict,? said NAACP President Benjamin Todd Jealous, vowing to pursue civil rights charges with the Department of Justice. 	The verdict means Zimmerman escapes a lengthy prison sentence but still faces a likely civil suit for gunning down the unarmed black teenager. 	It brings a stunning end to a more than year-long drama that began on a rainy night when Zimmerman encountered young Trayvon walking through the teen?s townhouse complex in Sanford, Fla., on Feb. 26, 2012. 	Trayvon, dressed in a hooded sweatshirt, was returning from a 7?Eleven where he purchased a package of Skittles and an Arizona fruit drink. 	Zimmerman could have been convicted of second-degree murder or manslaughter. 	The verdict was handed down by a panel of six women that included just one minority member ? but also five mothers. The jurors deliberated for more than 16 hours over two days, rendering a verdict that brought the Zimmerman family to tears. Several family members were still hugging each other as the ashen-faced prosecutors stormed out of the courtroom. 	Martin?s parents were not present for the verdict. But they bared their heartbreak in messages posted on Twitter. 	?Lord during my darkest hour I lean on you,? wrote Sybrina Fulton. ?You are all that I have. At the end of the day, GOD is still in control. Thank you all for your prayers and support. I will love you forever Trayvon!!!? 	?Even though I am broken hearted my faith is unshattered I WILL ALWAYS LOVE MY BABY TRAY,? Martin?s father, Tracy, tweeted. 	Prosecutors were restrained in their reaction. 	?I?m disappointed,? prosecutor Bernie De La Rondia said, ?but we accept the jury?s verdict.? 	Zimmerman?s defense team expressed muted joy at a post-verdict news conference. 	?I am gratified by the jury?s verdict,? said lawyer Don West. ?As happy as I am for George Zimmerman, I?m thrilled that the jury kept this tragedy from becoming a travesty.? 	Zimmerman?s brother, Robert Zimmerman Jr., told CNN host Piers Morgan: ?I don?t think this is a time for high-fiving.? 	He added that his brother will never truly be a free man. ?He?s going to be looking around his shoulder for the rest of his life,? he said. 	The polarizing case riveted the nation and cast a spotlight on Florida?s controversial ?Stand Your Ground? law. 	Defense attorneys said the case was classic self-defense, claiming Martin tackled Zimmerman to the ground and was bashing his head against the concrete sidewalk when Zimmerman opened fire. 	Prosecutors portrayed Zimmerman as a ?wanna-be cop? vigilante who profiled Martin. 	They argued that Zimmerman, frustrated by a spate of break-ins in his neighborhood, instigated the confrontation. 	The jurors began their second day of deliberations about 9 a.m. on Saturday, took breaks for lunch and dinner, and continued deliberating into the evening. 	Four hours before the verdict was announced, the jury ? in a move that left defense lawyers unhappy and observers expecting a compromise verdict ? asked for a clarification on the manslaughter charge against their client. That note came out of the jury room about 6 p.m. 	The panel?s request raised speculation that jurors could opt for the lesser charge against Zimmerman.. 	Outside the courthouse earlier in the day, about 100 people gathered for word of a verdict in the racially charged case. 	?We love you, George!? shouted those on the murder defendant?s side. 	?Justice for Trayvon!? responded those seeking a Zimmerman conviction. 	Some supporters of the Martin family wore hoodies in the blistering Florida sun in solidarity with the victim. 	Sheriff?s deputies intervened to keep the two sides apart after one particularly heated exchange. The deputies stepped in before any punches were thrown. 	Late Saturday, the demonstrations remained peaceful. 	Benjamin Crump, a Martin family lawyer, said the teen will go down in history alongside other civil rights heroes. 	?Trayvon Martin will forever remain in the annals of history next to Medgar Evers and Emmett Till as a symbol for the fight for equal justice for all,? Crump said. 	?For Trayvon to rest in peace, we must all be peaceful.? 	The jury spent 3 1/2 hours deliberating on Friday after hearing summations in the three-week trial. 	Sharpton, speaking earlier Saturday in Harlem, said the verdict would not signal the end of the legal fight ? whether Zimmerman was guilty or innocent. 	Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch captain in his gated Florida community, was arrested 44 days after the shooting following coast-to-coast outrage. 	Even President Obama weighed in, saying, ?If I had a son, he?d look like Trayvon.? 	But anger and disbelief over the long-delayed arrest went beyond the African-American community, as people throughout the nation saw it as a glaring example of unequal justice. 	And Sanford was besieged by angry demonstrators. 	Barraged with criticism, Florida Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican, appointed State Attorney Angela Corey to revisit the case, and she decided there was evidence to charge Zimmerman. 	While the case came to be seen through a prism of black and white, it wasn?t that simple. Zimmerman is part Hispanic. 	The case also exposed the nation?s ugly racist underbelly, with Zimmerman supporters flooding the Internet with photos of a thuggish-looking Trayvon that were actually the rapper Game and insisting ? based on no evidence ? that the high school junior from Miami Gardens was a budding gangster with a criminal record. 	Aside from Zimmerman, there were no witnesses to the struggle that ended with Trayvon dead with a bullet in his chest. 	With Larry McShane and Tom Tracy 	csiemaszko@nydailynews.com 	ODD MOMENTS 	April 11: After the shooting death of Trayvon Martin, it took Florida authorities 44 days to charge gunman George Zimmerman. 	March 22: Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee went on paid leave and offered his resignation amid the furor over the case, but the city council rejected it. On June 20, the city decided to fire him. 	March 23: Geraldo Rivera blamed the shooting on Martin?s hoodie, sparking a fierce backlash. Rivera later apologized. 	April 10: In a bizarre press conference, Zimmerman?s then-lawyers Hal Uhrig and Craig Sonner announce they have lost contact with their client and no longer represent him. 	June: Jerry Counelis, a member of a pro-Trayvon Martin group, tried to get on the jury ? but was denied. 	June 24: In his opening statement, defense lawyer Don West cracked a ?knock knock? joke that was met by silence and blank stares. After the verdict, he defended his decision.