The crippled Fukushima nuclear power plant is leaking contaminated water into the ocean and the Japanese government has known about the spillage. Tokyo?s admission comes 24 hours after Tepco ? the Tokyo Electric Power Company which operates the plant acknowledged for the first time the problem which has been suspected by experts for a long time. ?The Japanese government is taking this issue seriously. The Minister of Trade, Economy and Industry was instructed to act promptly to prevent contaminated water from leaking into the ocean,? said Yoshihide Suga the government?s chief cabinet secretary. The delayed announcement and belated apology underscored the criticisms the company has faced over the Fukushima crisis. Masayuki Ono a spokesman for Tepco apologised for the leaks. ?High readings of radiation were detected from the ground of the turbine building. We are very sorry for causing concerns for so many people and especially we deeply apologise to the people of Fukushima,? he said. The company has also come under fire for not revealing earlier that the number of workers with thyroid radiation exposures exceeding the threshold levels for cancer risks was 10 times what it had released earlier. Chemical solution is being pumped into the ground which will solidify and help prevent further leaks. 1 euronews live TV - News | euronews : the latest international news as video on demand 2 The power of the pen: Cartoonists worldwide react to the Charlie Hebdo attack | euronews, world news 3 [LIVE] 12 dead after gun attack at French satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo | euronews, world news 4 [LIVE] Second hostage crisis erupts in Paris as police close in on Charlie Hebdo suspects | euronews, world news 5 Medieval Bruges is to get its own underground beer pipeline | euronews, world news 6 France: Angouleme council takes down anti-homeless cages around benches after outcry | euronews, world news 8 NATO joins search for ?Russian submarine? off Scottish coast | euronews, world news 9 International tv news | euronews: European and International tv news bulletin 10 Grim task of retrieving bodies after wreckage of missing AirAsia plane found | euronews, world news 12 Ukraine turns its back on its ?worst year since World War II? | euronews, world news 13 NewsWires : euronews : the latest international news as video on demand 14 eurovibes - a selection of Europe?s best music talent 15 Italian pop icon Pino Daniele dies | euronews, world news 16 [Live] Armed Charlie Hebdo attack suspects ?located? near Paris | euronews, world news 17 The American Century comes to an end as China becomes the world?s largest economy | euronews, economy 18 Chechen ?death? unit fighting with rebels in eastern Ukraine | euronews, world news 19 Kurds regain most of Kobani but ISIL fights on in Syrian border town | euronews, world news 20 Pakistan Taliban ?kill over 100? in Peshawar school attack | euronews, world news