The latest analyses of sewage sludge in Gunma and Chiba prefectures shows that iodine-131 levels have sharply increased in the last two months. The presence of this short-lived radionuclide indicates criticalities have been occurring at Fukushima Daiichi. It is also the cause of thyroid cancer, thyroid nodules, and other thyroid diseases. The Gunma graph indicated the highest amounts of I-131 found since testing began in May 2011. The peak in early June is slightly higher than the previous peak in May 2012. Note that levels dipped in early July and bounced back up again in mid-July. This suggest that two separate criticality events have occurred. The Chiba graph shows a similar situation, with a June peak which was high, but lower than the short sharp spike in September 2012. Chiba also dipped and then rose again in late July, similar to Gunma. The wind directions have something to do with I-131 contamination in sludge, as do rainfall amounts. Chiba is to the south of Daiichi, and Gunma is to the west. But they agree with each other, pretty much. The secondary peak in late July indicates a radioactive plume has been emitted, which has already arrived in the US. I expect it to reach the east coast in a couple of days. Certainly there have been radiation spikes in Japan recently. There were many hospitalizations after a heavy rainstorm occurred during an outdoor concert in Tokyo. A Japanese blog post here and here has been making the rounds of message boards and twitter, alleging that a fire has occurred at Fukushima Daiichi. The area circled in red is the water injection crane. Certainly there have been large amounts of steam and smoke at the plant recently. And you don?t necessarily have to have flames to have a fire in nuclear fuel. The situation is as bad or worse now as at any time since the initial catastrophe in March 2011. The Wall Street Journal is reporting that radioactive cesium levels in trenches at the Daiichi plant have increased to levels not seen since April 2011. Radiation of 750 million becquerels a liter of cesium-134 and 1.6 billion becquerels a liter of cesium-137 was recorded, Tepco said. The normal limits for the two potentially harmful isotopes are 60 and 90 becquerels, respectively. In April 2011 a combined 1.8 billion becquerels was recorded. ?The level of radioactivity is potentially serious but the impact would depend on where it is found,? a Tepco official said. The sample came from a trench near the No. 2 reactor turbine building, the utility said. This water is leaking into the Pacific. No measures have been taken to stop this outflow of contaminated water. Unit 3, which has been giving off a light show on the Daiichi wecams the past few weeks, has been giving off steam. Nitrogen has been injected into this reactor continuously, in order to prevent a hydrogen explosion. There is a shortfall in nitrogen recovered from the gas management system. This shows that the steam is coming from the reactor, or from the hole in the ground underneath the reactor, with MOX corium down there. According to Fukushima Diary, On 7/26/2013, Tepco announced the ?steam? may be from the inside of the reactor. They have been stating it is the heated rainwater. Tepco is starting to change their stance. According to Tepco, they are injecting 16 m3/h of nitrogen gas into the reactor, but the gas management system takes up only 13 m3/h. The gap of 3 m3/h gas including evaporated water may be coming out from the top of the reactor3 building. Clearly Tepco has been lying about rainwater being the source of steam coming out of reactor 3. The underground corium has encountered water. So there is a risk of a hydrovolcanic explosion with this plutonium-rich fuel. Iodine-131 has been detected from fly ash at the Ota incineration plant in Tokyo, in the period June 20-28. This indicates criticalities have been occurring at the plant. Iodine is being released continuously, so criticalities are also continuous. A huge radiation dose of 562 mSv has been measured at Unit 3. The neutrons from the chain reactions, along with neutron-emitting isotopes like plutonium and curium, interact with the nitrogen injections to cause carbon-14 to be released. There have been no measurements made of this isotope. Along with tritium from neutrons and boric acid injections , this isotope is most deleterious to plant life. Linus Pauling, the two-time Nobel Prize-winning chemist, felt that carbon-14 was the most dangerous isotope of them all. Also, reactor containment pressure has been rapidly increasing at unit 2. The situation at Fukushima is deteriorating rapidly. Tepco has finally admitted that radioactive-contaminated water has been leaking into the Pacific Ocean. Surprise, surprise. The Japanese nuclear regulatory commission, which is in bed with the nuclear industry, has already said so. Huge increases in the amount of cesium-137, strontium-90, and tritium have been found recently in trenches and pools under the plant. Contaminated fish have been found in the sea far away from the plant for some time. Tepco announced in December 2011 that the plant was in ?cold shutdown?. A lie, huh? They have also admitted that more than 10 times the number of Fukushima workers have been exposed to carcinogenic amounts of radiation than they reported to the WHO last year. It is not surprising that criminals lie about the crimes they have committed. ?We would like to offer our deep apology for causing grave worries for many people, especially for people in Fukushima,? Masayuki Ono, Tepco?s general manager, told a news conference in comments broadast on public NHK television. So they apologize for making people worry? What about the murder of the largest ocean on earth? What about the sickness, the death, the millions and probably BILLIONS that will die from their incompetence and mendacity? Children?s lives blighted, dying in agony? They?re talking about creating anxiety? Tepco said that based on water sample tests, any impact of the leakage appeared to be contained by silt fences erected near the devastated reactors. A silt fence is gonna stop the ocean from being contaminated? Are they nuts? They didn?t even bother to build a cofferdam, not that that would have made much difference either. This item has generated news stories in the mass media, but itself has little significance. The real issue is the silence of the US government, the UN, the mass media, the medical industry, and all other institutions which have failed to recognize the enormity of the situation, and have either stuck their heads in the sand like ostriches, or are actively collaborating with nuclear sociopaths in destroying all life on earth for money. The Capital Weather Gang has an entry today in the Washington Post, ?Pressure cooker! Washington, D.C. matches record high pressure reading in heat wave?. The value of 5,990 meters has been matched 3 times since 1962. This value is a pressure measurement, but is not the same as the barometric pressure value you hear on the weather report. It is a record high 500mb geopotential height. The 500mb refers to an altitude of 18,000 feet. The geopotential height refers to the altitude you need to go to obtain the standard average pressure at 18,000 feet. When the air is hot as it is now in this region of the country , it expands? you have to go higher to get a barometric pressure reading at the average level. Conversely, when it is cold, the air contracts, and you have to go lower to get the average pressure level. Hence, the geopotential height is in meters, an altitude scale. So this height is clearly correlated to the average temperature in the column of air from the surface up to 18,000 feet. This concept is actually far more useful to meteorologists than surface pressure. When the geopotential height is low, then the air above you is compressed. If there are toxins in that air such as radionuclides , compressing the air column will increase the concentration of toxins in the air you are breathing. Also, there is a counterclockwise rotation around 500mb lows in the northern hemisphere , and this tends to accumulate material into it. Think of the drain in your bathtub, and how it accumulates hair and other debris as it goes down. So specific radioactivity in the air goes up in these situations see Miyake et al . When the geopotential height is high, then the air above you is expanded. Therefore, the concentration of toxins is decreased. However, there are a couple of other factors involved. High pressure brings subsidence, that is, air from the jet stream level is transported down. This raises radioactivity levels if as now there are high concentrations of radionuclides at this higher altitude. Also, this weather pattern favors temperature inversions, in which local pollutants are trapped, and there is little wind to blow them away. People living near nuclear power plants will experience higher radiation during this weather pattern. The recent releases from Fukushima Daiichi linger at a lower altitude than the old stuff in the jet stream that has blowing around the earth the past two years. Consider this: when the radioactive toxins rise through the air, they have a hard time getting on the faster wind track which is higher above. Think of those moving sidewalks at airports. Stepping from a slow one to a fast one takes time and effort. So it might take several months for the radionuclides to step up into the jet stream level. Personally, this weather pattern in the DC area is an improvement. The past two days are the first time in weeks that my thyroid has NOT been bothering me. Any radioactive iodine coming down from the jet stream level has already decayed some time ago. So, I am getting a much-needed break, even though it is miserably hot and humid outside. This very informative video was made by an individual who built a homemade cloud chamber, and put a piece of the radioactive black substance in it cyanobacteria & fungi , gathered from Katsushika, Tokyo. The other day, were collected black substance when I went to Katsushika direction. Results of the measurement of the radioactivity concentration? it was about 100 000 becquerels per kg in the combined cesium. Where it creates a cloud chamber together, was observed, it was confirmed the trajectory of the particle beam such as the image at the beginning. -solution ethyl alcohol, coolant dry ice how to create ? cloud chamber is in accordance with the video reference but I used dry ice as a coolant. In addition, those white under the blue-green algae base of Styrofoam? As shown in the following figure, beta and alpha, have the property that bends under the action of the magnetic field. However, since holding such experimental environment is strictly controlled continuously in low temperature state, and the magnetic field pretty hard personally, providing an environment to observe strictly This has taken an image of the I have finished the prima facie observation by. In the latest Pacific destruction news, 1000 Bq/kg of radioactive cesium has been found in suzuki fish Japanese sea bass . This is 10 times the Japanese radiation limit for edible food. 150,000,000,000 Bq/m3 of cesium in an outside trench. 1,400,000 Bq/m3 of all-beta radiation in hole #3 near reactor #3 . Building an underground wall to stop contaminated water from reaching the ocean may back up, damage the reactor buildings, and cause a catastrophic radiation release. Masao Yoshida, the former plant manager of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, died today of esophageal cancer. He was 58. Yoshida?s ignoring Tepco?s orders to stop seawater injection into the stricken reactors saved Tokyo, and the USA too for now . As radiation levels spiked in the early days of the crisis, workers were pulled out of the plant leaving behind what became known as the Fukushima Fifty who risked their lives to bring the reactors under control. On March 12, a day after the tsunami, Yoshida ignored an order from Tepco headquarters to stop pumping seawater into a reactor to try and cool it because of concerns that ocean water would corrode the equipment? Spain gave the Fukushima Fifty the Prince of Asturias Award for Concord in September 2011, calling them the ?heroes of Fukushima.? ?He was such a born leader that his subordinates were ready to die alongside him,? said Ryusho Kadota, who interviewed Yoshida and other members of the Fifty for his book ?The Man Who Stared Down Death.? ?If Yoshida hadn?t been plant manager, Tokyo would be a no-man?s land right now.? 1 The lying and genocidal corporation Tepco, which owns the Daiichi plant, has said that Yoshida?s esophageal cancer was not due to radiation exposure, because he ?couldn?t? have developed it in the time frame since the earthquake. Of course they would say that? THE MURDERER DENIES THAT HE COMMITTED THE CRIME. The photo taken around the time of Yoshida?s stepping down from his post in December 2011 shown two areas of swelling in the neck area. From this tweet: The report also in the hoax death news director Yoshida in NHK. Lymph cancer of iodine exposure has occurred in the cervical vertebrae of Yoshida, you can see that you have transferred to the esophagus. It is a symptom of a complete ?acute iodine exposure cancer?. Esophageal cancer if exposure, and they occur in one year in acute. Case of juvenile exposure and cancer, metastasis is usually in one year. 2 Clearly the radioactive iodine had gotten to him, and metastasis had occurred. Also, he had been employed by Tepco since 1979, and he must have accumulated a significant dose since then. From an interview with Yoshida conducted in July 2012, ?In a Buddhism text that I?ve been reading for a long time, there is a mention of divine figures issuing from the ground. That was what I felt was happening in the hellish situation at the plant. Workers would go to the scenes of the accident, then come back upstairs at the Anti-Seismic Building , they were dead tired, without sleep, with not enough food, reaching the limit of their physical strength. Then they would go out again, and come back, and go out again. There were many workers like them. When I saw these workers, I knew I had to do whatever I could for them. It?s my belief that we have been able to restore the plant to the current level [of relative stability], because of these workers.? The precise word Mr. Yoshida uses for ?divine figure? is ?Bodhisattva? ? one who vows to save all beings before becoming a buddha. 3 There is no doubt that Fukushima is hell on earth. After their realization of Noble Wisdom, and a heart full of compassion and love for all beings, transcendental bodies of bodhisattvas appear from the ground, in the form of the Fukushima 50. According to the Lankavatara Sutra: Then Mahamati said to the Blessed One: You have spoken of an astral-body, a ?mind-vision-body? manomayakaya which the Bodhisattvas are able to assume, as being one of the fruits of self-realisation of Noble Wisdom: pray tell us, Blessed One, what is meant by such transcendental body?? The second kind of transcendental personality is the kind assumed by Bodhisattvas and Tathagatas as bodies of transformation by which they demonstrate their original vows in the work of achieving and perfecting; it comes with the eighth stage of Bodhisattvahood. When the Bodhisattva has a thorough-going penetration into the maya-like nature of things and understands the dharma of imagelessness, he will experience the ?turning-about? in his deepest consciousness and will become able to experience the higher Samadhis even to the highest. By entering into these exalted Samadhis he attains a personality that transcends the conscious-mind, by reason of which he obtains supernatural powers of self-mastery and activities because of which he is able to move as he wishes, as quickly as a dream changes as quickly as an image changes in a mirror. This transcendental body is not a product of the elements and yet there is something in it that is analogous to what is so produced; it is furnished with all the differences appertaining to the world of form but without their limitations; possessed of this ?mind-vision-body? he is able to be present in all the assemblages in all the Buddha-lands. Just as his thoughts move instantly and without hindrance over walls and rivers and trees and mountains, and just as in memory he recalls and visits the scenes of his past experiences, so, while his mind keeps functioning in the body, his thoughts may be a hundred thousand yojanas away. In the same fashion the transcendental personality that experiences the Samadhi Vajravimbopama will be endowed with supernatural powers and psychic faculties and self-mastery by reason of which he will be able to follow the noble paths that lead to the assemblages of the Buddhas, moving about as freely as he may wish. But his wishes will no longer be self-centered nor tainted by discrimination and attachment, for this transcendental personality is not his old body, but is the transcendental embodiment of his original vows of self-yielding in order to bring all beings to maturity. 4 I?m not sure that this is the same sutra that Yoshida was referring to more likely the Avatamsaka , but this would indicate the form of divine assistance he perceived, without which the radioactive contamination would have been much worse. This Japanese blog post reveals that contamination of the grounds of the Imperial Palace, home of the Emperor of Japan, is contaminated with 7.15 million becquerels per square meter of radioactive cesium. This is 15 times the amount which necessitated evacuation of contaminated areas near Chernobyl. According to Wikipedia, ?During the height of the 1980s Japanese property bubble, the palace grounds were valued by some as more than the value of all the real estate in the state of California.? The alien and evil force of nuclear continues to destroy our wealth, our historic institutions, our lives, and our future. Fukushima Diary has a post about iodine-131 being detected in school lunch items in Hokkaido. The earliest date of detection was June 17, which agrees with the previous discussion here about a recent criticality event at Daiichi. Certainly my poor thyroid has been detecting this as well over the past couple of weeks.