Trayvon Martin decision: Thousands protest in New York, Los Angeles over George Zimmerman acquittal Updated July 15, 2013 16:08:29 Thousands of protesters have taken to the streets in New York and Los Angeles to rally against the acquittal of neighbourhood watchman George Zimmerman, who was found not guilty of murdering unarmed black teenager Trayvon Martin in Florida. A jury of six women acquitted Zimmerman on Saturday over the shooting of the teenager, who was carrying nothing but a bag of lollies and a mobile phone. Thousands of people marched in New York City late on Sunday, while protesters in LA briefly brought a highway to standstill. The protests followed a call for calm reflection from US president Barack Obama, who described Martin's death as a tragedy . Organisers of the Occupy Los Angeles movement had planned a rally during the afternoon on Martin Luther King Jr boulevard to protest the acquittal, according to the LA Times. The newspaper's website reported that police had been placed on tactical alert. Pictures show hundreds of people spilling on to a highway, with police forming a line to halt the movement of protesters. The LA Times also reported that authorities fired non-lethal rounds in response to some protesters who had thrown rocks at police. In New York, many of the protestors brandished signs bearing a portrait of Martin, while some - despite sweltering July heat - wore hoodie sweatshirts, as the 17-year-old did the night he was killed in February 2012. Protesters began gathering in lower Manhattan's Union Square in early afternoon. A procession later began marching from the square north on 6th Avenue, under heavy police watch, and reached Times Square. By evening, there were several thousand marching. The people say guilty, chanted demonstrators - some of whom came with their children. I am appalled, said Carli VanVoorhis, a 21-year-old hairdresser. The man was armed, the kid was not, and the man with the gun got away, she said. If we say it was not a racial issue, we would be lying. Many in the crowd - who also chanted no justice, no peace - were black, but there were whites and Hispanics present as well. One sign urged: Jail racist killers, not black youth, while many others declared We are all Trayvon. The whole damn system is guilty. At least one marcher wore a t-shirt proclaiming I'm black. Please don't shoot? We have a big problem with race, and another problem is guns, said one speaker, Rodney Rodriguez. If Zimmerman didn't have a gun, he couldn't have killed Trayvon Martin. Another protester, Derreck Wilson, 46, said the group had come to say in a peaceful way why we are angry. We are angry, scared and anxious. It's cathartic, he said. We all have the same desires. I want to be able to have my son to come home, added Wilson, who came to the protest from the traditionally African-American neighbourhood of Harlem. The case has, since the beginning, pitted those who think the 29-year-old neighbourhood watchman - son of a white father and a Peruvian mother - killed Martin in self-defence, and those who think it was a murder sparked by racist assumptions. The killing has also resonated with those who call for stricter gun laws, including New York mayor Michael Bloomberg, who issued a statement Sunday against what he called shoot-first laws. Sadly, all the facts in this tragic case will probably never be known. But one fact has long been crystal clear: 'shoot first' laws like those in Florida can inspire dangerous vigilantism and protect those who act recklessly with guns, Bloomberg said, reiterating his calls for eliminating the statutes. The tragic death of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed child attempting to walk home from the store, will continue to drive our efforts, Bloomberg added. 	Topics: 	 	activism-and-lobbying, 	 	government-and-politics, 	 	courts-and-trials, 	 	law-crime-and-justice, 	 	race-relations, 	 	community-and-society, 	 	united-states 	 First posted July 15, 2013 12:25:31