We're going to wrap up our live blog coverage of events in Egypt for the day. All previously anticipated news conferences for the night have not happened yet and appear to be off ? unless they come back on. Here's a summary of where things stand: ? General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, the head of the Egyptian military, delivered a statement in which he said that political forces have 48 hours to meet the people's demands or else the army would impose a road map for the national politics. An hour later, five military helicopters trailing giant national flags flew in broad circles over Cairo.?Is it a coup? ? In celebration of the announcement, millions of Egyptians entered the streets, where thousands remained from Sunday's major protests against president Mohamed Morsi on the anniversary of his inauguration. The understanding of the rallying crowds appeared to be that the army statement signaled that Morsi is on his way out. A Morsi aide told the Guardian that Sisi's ultimatum was a military coup. ? The army denied that it was mounting a coup, insisting that it was instead seeking to stop Egypt from entering a dark tunnel of conflict. The opposition National Salvation Front also said that the army ultimatum was not a coup. The NSF endorsed the army's explanation of its action as a defense of the will of the people. Finally, late in the day the Muslim Brotherhood said the army action was not a coup but a security measure.? ? The headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood in Cairo were looted and burned overnight, in violence that was part of larger clashes that killed at?least 16 people and injured more than 780, according to health ministry figures. A home belonging to Muslim Brotherhood deputy Khairat al-Shater was also reportedly attacked. ? The future of the Morsi government is unclear. At least five cabinet ministers and Morsi's main liaison officer to the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces resigned Monday. Millions vowed to stay in the streets until the 48-hour deadline had passed.? So far the Brotherhood, the opposition and the army have all denied that what is happening in Egypt is a coup a Morsi aide went off script with the Guardian's Patrick Kingsley earlier today, saying the 48-hour ultimatum is tantamount to a military coup . Now the army has proposed one further explanation for why this isn't a coup: the rules of the army don't allow coups: Egyptian Armed Forces' doctrines do not include military coups as a policy. The armed forces already deployed on Egypt's streets in 1977, 1987 and 2011 and this did not lead to a coup, but rather [led the army] to stand with the will of the great Egyptian people and their desire for reform and change. Egypt's main opposition bloc said on Monday an army statement which gave feuding politicians 48 hours to compromise did not reflect a desire by the military to take power. The ultimatum, which said the army would impose its own road map if the government and opposition failed to resolve the country's political crisis, showed that the army respected the principles of democracy and the will of the nation as a source of power , the National Salvation Front said in a statement. The group of liberals and leftists, which counts Nobel laureate Mohamed ElBaradei among its leaders, called on Egyptians to continue peaceful protests across the country. Egypt and the entire world witnessed protests yesterday by the great Egyptian people, expressing their views and their will in a peaceful, civil and unprecedented manner. Everyone saw the movement of the Egyptian people and listened to their voice with respect and interest. It is essential that the people's action and demands receive a response from all parties which bear some measure of responsibility in this dangerous environment for the nation.? The Egyptian armed forces, as a principle component of the future equation, and based on its national and historic responsibility to protect the security and welfare of this nation, affirms the following:? The armed forces will not take part in the political or governing arena and is against exceeding the role accorded to it by genuine democratic principles rooted in the will of the people;? The security of the nation faces real dangers from the recent developments in the country, which places responsibilities on all of us, each according to their roles, and to what is necessary to fend off these risks.? The armed forces were quick to realise the danger of the current situation as well as the demands of the great Egyptian people. That is why it set a one-week ultimatum for all political forces to reach consensus and pull out of the crisis. But that week has passed without any initiative or action. This is what led the people to persevere and independently take to the streets in an impressive way, which has drawn admiration and attention domestically, regionally and internationally.? Wasting more time will only lead to more divisions and strife, of which we have been warning and continue to warn.? The people have suffered and have found no one to give them care and kindness, and this presents a moral and psychological burden for the armed forces, which concludes that everyone should stop doing anything other than embracing the proud people, who have proven their readiness to do the impossible, if they feel loyalty and dedication toward them.? The armed forces repeat their call to respond to the people's demands and gives everyone a 48-hour deadline to carry the burden of these historic circumstances that the nation is going through. It will not forgive or tolerate any shortcomings in bearing their responsibilities.? The armed forces warns everyone that if the demands of the people are not met during this set time period, it will be obliged, due to its national and historic duties, out of respect for the demands of the great Egyptian people, to announce a roadmap and measures for the future, which it would oversee in collaboration with all the loyal national factions and movements, including the youth who were and remain the spark of the glorious revolution. No one would be ignored.? A salute of appreciation and fondness to the faithful and loyal men of the armed forces, who bore and continue to bear their national responsibility toward the great Egyptian people with all determination, perseverance and pride.? God protect Egypt and its great proud people ? Critics will be quick to conjure up the spectre of Algeria in 1991 when the generals stepped in to cancel a second round of elections an Islamist party had been poised to win. The difference is that Egypt has had its election ? won by the Brotherhood. The fear now, perhaps being deliberately exaggerated in a dangerously charged and polarised atmosphere, is that Algerian levels of violence will follow. The Brotherhood's anger at this move reflects a sense that they have been outmanoeuvred by the soldiers they thought they had neutralised. Only last summer the newly elected Morsi won plaudits for moving swiftly and effectively against the Mubarak-era commanders of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces Scaf ? and appointed Sisi to underline civilian control over the army. Still, the two sides have maintained a partnership of sorts in the long and messy transition to Egypt's rickety and dysfunctional democracy. The army is ideologically aligned with the secular opposition but the Brotherhood remains the most organised civilian body in the country ? a legacy of the authoritarian decades of stunted political life and rigged elections. And the army has managed to maintain its privileges and huge economic interests as well as its strategically vital relationship with the US military and the Pentagon. Monday's comments by President Barack Obama sounded distinctly approving of its intervention. The Brotherhood says that when Egyptians elected Morsi, they entered into an unbreakable contract to keep him for four years. The protesters say he was elected on a stated commitment to the goals of the revolution and promises he made, and that he's broken every one of those. So Morsi has broken his contract with the electorate. ...Is this a coup? If it is, it seems to be reluctantly mounted. Sisi's statement is clear: the military does not want to rule. But he is wooing the people; he makes a point of praising their self-empowerment, and as I write six military helicopters flying Egyptian flags circle over my house. ...People want to believe the military has learned its lesson and doesn't want to rule; that the bad people are no longer in Scaf; and that the army chief, General al-Sisi, will oversee another set of elections. The revolutionaries are working hard to point out that this phase is not against Morsi and the Brotherhood as such, but against the continuation of the policies that marked the Mubarak era. Without radical change, these policies will carry on under the next president ? be he army-appointed or otherwise. But the people want to get rid of Morsi first and deal with the rest later. The?anti-Morsi protests in Tahrir Square, Alexandria and elsewhere appear to be huge even by Egyptian revolutionary standards. OnTv is livestreaming here and tweets pictures of various rallies. Here's the scene in Tahrir from about a half hour ago: The presidency indicated that it viewed the statement as a coup d'etat, and implied that Morsi was safe as long as his administration still had US support. Obviously we feel this is a military coup, a presidential aide said. But the conviction within the presidency is that [the coup] won't be able to move forward without American approval. The aide's comments implied that the presidency was hopeful of continued American support. They also suggested the presidency was banking on the likelihood that the military would not risk upsetting America, which provides it with significant funding. The US ambassador to Egypt has spent recent days trying to persuade opposition figures to engage in dialogue with Morsi instead of supporting protests. After the reported arrest of 15 bodyguards of Brotherhood leader Khairat al-Shater, and the destruction overnight of Muslim Brotherhood headquarters in Cairo, a house belonging to Shater has reportedly been attacked: Former Egyptian presidential candidate Amr Moussa welcomed an army statement on Monday giving rival politicians 48 hours to resolve the country's standoff, saying it reflected the will of the people. Many journalists at the scene are reporting jubilation in Tahrir Square at the appearance of helicopters flying the national flag, and the return of the anti-regime chant the people and the army are one hand : The protest movement that brought down Mubarak, however, harbors deep antipathy for military rule, and the seeming embrace of the military by crowds in the streets this evening has been met with disbelief... Armed Forces asserts the following: The Armed Forces will not take part in the policy making and will not accept a role outside of the democratic framework set by the people. The nation?s national security is under threat following the latest developments, each side should exhibit responsibility. The Armed Forces had previously expected this instability, had given a week for the various forces to reach consensus and end the crisis, but this week passed with no action, which led the people to go on the streets, to express their freedom in a manner that impressed the local and international community. Wasting more time will not result except in more polarization and conflict. The people of Egypt have suffered for so long with no one to save them. Accordingly, the Armed Forces feels obligated to embrace the will of the people who proved they are able to do the impossible. The Armed Forces renews its call and give the political forces a 48 hour ultimatum as a last chance to carry the burdens of this historic situation that the nation is going through. The Armed Forces calls upon everyone that if the people?s demands aren?t set within the timeframe, based on its historic and national obligation it will have to declare a roadmap and procedures that oversee to include all mainstreams including the youth who started this glorious revolution without excluding anyone. The armed forces repeat their call for meeting the people's demands and grant 48 hours as a deadline and last chance to shoulder the responsibility of this historical event, for a nation, Egypt, which will not forgive any shortcomings in taking responsibility by any forces. The armed forces are saying to all sides, if the people's demands are not met within the deadline, the armed forces would be obliged in accordance with their national and historical responsibilities and in respect of the demands of the great Egyptian people, to declare a road map and procedures, the implementation of which will be supervised by the armed forces with the participation of all sincere national parties, including the young men who were and still are igniting the glorious revolution and without ousting anyone. The Egyptian armed forces have set a deadline, which ended yesterday [Sunday], for all political powers to reconcile and end the current crisis, but no progress has been made. Consequently, the Egyptian people have taken to the streets ... The news agency says Morsi and the protesters must reach an agreement to meet the people's demands or the army would intervene and put forward a road map . It did not define the people's demands, but said if they were not realised the military would be obliged to announce a road map for the future and the steps for overseeing its implementation, with participation of all patriotic and sincere parties and movements . The statement described yesterday's protests as glorious and said protesters expressed their opinion in a peaceful and civilised manner , adding that it is necessary that the people get a reply ... to their calls . The military underlined it will not be a party in politics or rule . Here's a summary of the main events in Egypt today: ? Up to five ministers from Mohamed Morsi's government have resigned after millions of people took to the streets on Sunday to demand the president's departure. There were unconfirmed reports that the ministers resigned in sympathy with the protests. ? The headquarters of?Egypt's?Muslim Brotherhood?have been burned and ransacked. Around 50 anti-Brotherhood protesters spent the night attacking the compound ? situated on a rocky, isolated outcrop in east Cairo ? with molotov cocktails, causing a series of small fires and explosions. With police nowhere to be seen, Brotherhood cadres returned fire, killing at least four, and injuring at least 80 ? according to medics at the scene. ? The army's leadership is due to make a statement about the political situation. The Muslim Brotherhood criticised the failure of the police to stop the attacks on its offices. It said it was considering action to defend itself. ? The ministry of health said 16 people were killed and almost 800 injured in violent clashes that followed huge and largely peaceful protests on Sunday. Millions took the streets in protests across the country including up to 500,000 in Cairo's Tahrir Square. The ultimatum issued Monday by Tamarod, the protest organisers, increases pressure on Morsi a day after the opposition's massive show of force on the streets. The main rallies in Cairo were largely peaceful, but deadly violence broke out in several parts of the country, often when marchers came under gunfire, apparently from Islamists. At least 16 people were killed and more than 780 injured, Health Ministry spokesman Yehya Moussa told state television. Tamarod, Arabic for Rebel, issued a statement giving Morsi until 5 p.m. 1500 GMT on Tuesday to step down and pave the way for early presidential elections or else it would bring the crowds back out, march on more palaces and launch complete civil disobedience. There [were] men with sticks at the entrance of the metro station across from KFC in Tahrir who are attacking women, reports OpAntiSH, a volunteer group that works to combat sexual violence in protests within the square's perimeter in downtown Cairo. Gehad El-Haddad, spokesman of the Islamist movement, told Reuters in a telephone interview that Egyptians would not sit by and tolerate attacks on their institutions. It's very dangerous for one entity in society to take up violence as a means of change because it may entice others to do so. The Muslim Brotherhood is a disciplined organization, he said, criticising the security forces for failing to protect the headquarters in Sunday's attack. Haddad referred to the creation of people's self-defence committees during the 2011 uprising that overthrew former President Hosni Mubarak. Asked whether the Brotherhood was calling for a similar move now, he said the movement's Guidance Bureau was in session and would make an announcement at a news conference later on Monday. The people will not sit silent, the spokesman said. With police nowhere to be seen, Brotherhood cadres returned fire, killing at least four of the besiegers, and injuring at least 80 ? according to medics at the scene. Their offices are being trashed all over Egypt ? but this was the most important, because they are running the country from this office, he said. Opponents of the Brotherhood detest the organisation because it is perceived to unduly influenced by Morsi, a Brotherhood associate, and because it seeks to impose too narrow a vision of Islam on Egyptian society.? Both sides told the Guardian that the other had started the battle, which began at around 7pm on Sunday. It was impossible to verify either claim. At roughly 7am, after 12 hours of fighting, Brotherhood reinforcements arrived ? possibly, bystanders said, because one of the fires had grown too big, and those inside now feared being smoked out. The reinforcements covered their colleagues' exit with live fire ? later seen being plucked from the wall by the Guardian. Bystanders said that some Brotherhood members were injured and handed to the authorities during the blaze. Once the other Brothers had fled, protesters stormed the compounded, and accelerated the blaze. Firefighters said they arrived at 9am ? too late to save the building, which is now charred and still filled with smoke. Once the worst of the fire was put out, hundreds reentered the building, looting and destroying its remaining features. The Guardian saw men and women taking away air-conditioning units, safes, sinks, and filing cabinets ? as well as the copper nametags of Khairat al-Shater, the Brotherhood's most powerful figure, and Mohamed el-Badie, its nominal leader. Inside, there was chaos, with black smoke still billowing through the upper rooms, and looters fighting over the spoils. Outside, a crowd of 200 chanted the people demand the fall of the regime indicative of the view that the Brotherhood has seized control of most of the state. The Brotherhood themselves believe that thoug Morsi is a Muslim Brother, the state is still controlled by officials loyal to ousted dictator Hosni Mubarak. The scene at their headquarters was a microcosm of the extreme polarisation affecting Egyptian society, which is divided between those who may be religious, but do not seek an Islamic state ? and Islamists like the Brotherhood, who seek to use the concepts of Islamic law to govern Egypt. Even state institutions appear to have been drawn into the polarisation. The police, who defended the same building during a similar attack in March, failed to intervene on Sunday. Millions took to the street against Morsi on Sunday ? in scenes reminiscent of the 2011 uprising that toppled Hosni Mubarak. Unlike in 2011, the president still had supporters prepared to gather on mass in his support. Over 100,000 Islamists have rallied in recent days in east Cairo in defence of Morsi's democratic mandate. It is a very tragic death as it happens paradoxically just when they thought that the future is theirs. Their best days are already behind them. And what makes it even more difficult for them to accept this tragic end is that it was brought about not because of the clever tactics or the insightful leadership of the opposition, as much as it was the result of their own bullheaded, stubborn leadership that, in the words of my dear friend Sherif Younis, had caused them to win all the battles but lose the war. In anticipation of Sunday?s protests, the interior minister had already announced that the police would not protect the offices of the Muslim Brotherhood from attack. And when the protests began, police officers were almost nowhere to be found. The headquarters of Egypt's ruling Muslim Brotherhood was overrun by youths who ransacked the building after those inside were evacuated on Monday following a night of violence that killed at least seven people. By far the bloodiest incident of Sunday's mammoth and mostly peaceful protests against the Brotherhood and President Mohamed Morsi, it began after dark and continued for hours, with guards inside firing on youths hurling fire bombs and rocks. A spokesman for the Brotherhood blamed the violence on thugs and said it would be demanding answers from police who failed to protect it. He said two of those inside were injured - by fires - before a security detail from the movement was able to evacuate all those inside the compound in mid-morning. The violence will likely add to a sense among Brotherhood members, long oppressed under Hosni Mubarak, that they face a political siege since being elected last year, which they blame on liberal opponents and loyalists of the old regime. Images of the four-storey suburban building, its walls scorched, windows smashed and looters making off with office furniture, recalled those of the destruction of the state security headquarters when Mubarak was toppled in 2011. The Brotherhood had fortified the headquarter's walls in the run up to the protests. Here's a roundup of the latest news: ? Egypt is locked in a tense standoff after millions of protesters took to the streets across the country demanding the resignation of Mohamed Morsi with some militants set the ruling Muslim Brotherhood's headquarters on fire. After dawn on Monday, young men were still preventing traffic entering Tahrir Square but only hundreds of people remained, some resting under makeshift awnings, Reuters reports. ? Up to 500,000 protesters filled Cairo's Tahrir Square on Sunday. Security sources said that at least seven people were killed and more than 600 wounded in clashes between Morsi's supporters and opponents. Follow how the day unfolded in Sunday's Middle East Live. If the army came to power it would stay for a long time. For many Islamists, having taken the democratic route but been denied the chance to see their leaders govern, opposition would not be a question of ideology but a matter of personal survival. What would prevent them from concluding that a future of arrest, torture and imprisonment awaits, a return to what they experienced under Mubarak? What would stop the ranks of extremists on both sides swelling? ? Government forces have pounded Sunni Muslim rebels in the central city of Homs with artillery and from the air on Sunday, the second day of an offensive to expand loyalist control over Syria's strategic centre, activists said.?They said rebels defending the old centre of Homs and five adjacent Sunni districts had largely repelled a ground attack on Saturday but reported fresh clashes and deaths within the city on Sunday.