As we wrap up this live blog, here's the latest story from our correspondents in Cairo, Patrick Kingsley and Martin Chulov, on the fierce clashes between pro-Morsi?supporters and demonstrators who called for his downfall. Other developments since the previous summary: ? The deputy leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, Khaiter El-Shater, has been arrested, along with his brother. ? A battle on a major bridge in Cairo between both anti- and pro-Muslim Brotherhood camps was quelled by the arrival of army vehicles, which were seen giving lifts to anti-Morsi demonstrators. ? Throughout the country, 30 people are reported to have died due to the day's violence, nearly half in the city of Alexandria. ?Medical officials say at least 12 people have been killed in clashes between supporters and opponents of the ousted president in the Mediterranean coastal city of Alexandria, bringing nationwide toll to 30. Emergency services official Amr Salama says the 12 died when hundreds of Islamists descended on a rally by opponents of ousted President Mohammed Morsi in the city, opening fire with guns. He says clashes erupted, and police joined on the side of the Morsi opponents. Salama says he saw one man die when he went to the roof of a building, raised an?Egyptian flag and shouted insults against Morsi. Morsi backers went to the roof and stabbed him and threw him off the building. Security sources said Shater, a wealthy businessman seen as the movement's main political strategist, was taken into custody on suspicion of incitement to violence. He was arrested at his apartment in Cairo.? CNN's senior international correspondent, Ben Wedeman, and his crew have had a camera taken off them by the military in Cairo, during a live two-way: Unfazed by the intervention, Wedeman has tweeted that he and his crew have a found a nice place to pass the time while they wait for the return of the camera. Ironically, on his Twitter profile, @bencnn, Wedeman denounces the practice of the reporter superseding the story: ?Egyptian military armored vehicles have raced onto a main bridge over the Nile River in Cairo in the first major move to break up clashes raging between Islamist backers of ousted President Mohammed Morsi and their opponents. Several armored vehicles, at least one with young Morsi opponents sitting on the roof, deployed on the 6th of October Bridge, near Tahrir Square, aiming to chase away Morsi supporters. Military helicopters flew toward Tahrir. Here's a summary of this afternoon's main events: ? Violence is intensifying in Cairo as thousands of supporters and opponents of Morsi clash on the 6 October bridge near Tahrir Square. Fireworks, molotov cocktails and birdshot were used in clashes between the groups. Even with the violence, there are no reports of army or police intervention. ? The supreme leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, Mohammed Badie, addressed a large crowd of pro-Morsi supporters in Cairo and said that military rule will never come back to Egypt. His appearance was a surprise because of earlier reports saying he had been arrested. He said those accusations are lies. ? At least 10 people have died in the clashes and 210 people have been injured, according to the Associated Press. ? More than 80 women were victims of sexual assault in the vicinity of Tahrir Square during Wednesday?s rallies. There have been at least 169 counts of sexual mob crime since protests against Morsi began on Sunday. ??Interim president Adli Mansour issued a decree to dissolve the upper house of Egypt?s parliament ??the shura council. The 100-member panel is the only body in Egypt with legislative powers and the body drafted Egypt?s constitution in December 2012. ? Turkey?s prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan condemned the ousting of Morsi and called it a threat to democracy. Those who rely on the guns in their hands, those who rely on the power of the media cannot build democracy,? Erdogan said. He also criticized the West for refusing to call the ousting a coup. Khaled el-Khatib, a Health Ministry official, says four people were killed near the Republican Guard building in Cairo, where troops opened fire on Morsi supporters marching on the building Friday afternoon. In Cairo, another person was killed in clashes that erupted after nightfall when Islamists attacked Morsi opponents near Tahrir Square. Four others died in the northern Sinai city of el-Arish, where Islamists stormed the main government building. The 10th was killed in the southern city of Assiut. While helicopters and jets have been flying over Cairo all day there is a notable lack of military presence on the ground, even as Morsi supporters and opponents clash on the 6 October bridge. In Cairo, a crowd of Islamists surged across a bridge over the Nile River after nightfall and clashed with Morsi opponents near Tahrir Square and outside the state TV building. One witness reports gunfire and stone throwing. Clashes, some involving police, erupted in cities of southern Egypt, along the Suez Canal and in the Nile Delta as Morsi supporters marched on local government buildings. Khaled el-Khatib, a Health Ministry official, says four people have been killed in Cairo and two elsewhere, with 180 wounded. The problem is that the state has been condoning these crimes, said Kirollos. There's no accountability whatsoever. There has also been zero effort by the government to change how the media or the education system deals with this problem. Egypt's National Council for Women is working with the country's interior ministry to set up a system where women can report sexual harassment to a specialised team of female police officers ? so that their cases might be taken more seriously. The group has also proposed new legislation to Egypt's cabinet that specifically outlaws sexual harassment. But with Wednesday's coup changing the people in power, both projects may not happen. Besides, campaigners are adamant that the problems cannot be solved by legal tweaks alone. It's going to take more than just laws, and more than just implementing those laws, to stop this happening, said Kirollos. Society needs to change to stop it. Badie just finished speaking at a pro-Morsi rally in Nasr City, Cairo. ?No one speaks on behalf of the Egyptian people,? Badie said. ?Everyone has one voice and had the chance to vote.? ?We will sacrifice ourselves, our souls and our blood, for president Morsi,? he said. Muslim Brotherhood supreme leader Mohammed Badie addressed pro-Morsi supporters at a rally in Nasr City, Cairo. ?The Muslim Brotherhood are one of you and they have been serving you and I am one of your servants,? he said. The speech came as a surprise as it was reported on Thursday that Badie had been arrested. ?I did not escape arrest warrant, such accusations are mere lies,? Badie said. Helicopters flew over head as Badie spoke to the large crowd: ?I take pride in my president Morsi, who is your president and president of all Egyptians. ?We will stay in public squares until we free our elected president and we carry him on our shoulders, Badie said. Those who rely on the guns in their hands, those who rely on the power of the media cannot build democracy.... Democracy can only be built at ballot box, said Erdogan, according to AFP. Egypt state television says that interim president Adli Mansour has issued a decree to dissolve the shura council, the upper house of Egypt?s parliament, according to Aswat Masriya. The country?s supreme constitutional court SCC ruled in June that the shura council was elected illegally. The 100-member panel is the only body in Egypt with legislative powers and the group drafted Egypt?s new constitution in December 2012. At the time of the June ruling, the group's powers were not immediately affected, but former president Mohamed Morsi said at the time that elections for a new lower house of parliament would take place in October. Here's a summary of the main events today ? At least three people were shot dead outside the Republican Guards' headquarters when the security forces opened fire against Morsi supporters as they got closer to the compound. The army denied its troops fired at the protesters. Britain's foreign minister, Alistair Burt, expressed concern and called for calm. ? The BBC's Jeremy Bowen was one of several people wounded by birdshot after witnessing the shooting at the building. He claimed he was fine and on his way out after an image of him appeared being treated for a head wound. ? Tens of thousands of Muslim Brotherhood supporters have taken part in demonstrations across Egypt to protest at the military coup that removed President Morsi from office. So far most have been largely peaceful. The opposition National Salvation Front, which backed the military takeover, urged its supporters to take to the streets in response. ? Egypt has been suspended from the African Union following the coup as international concern about events in Egypt mounts. The UN's human rights chief Navi Pillay urged Egypt's new government to stop arbitrary detentions. ? New details have emerged about the army's attempt to round up the leadership of the Muslim Brotherhood. Salah Sultan, a leading member of the movement, told the Guardian that arrest warrants had been issued for every member of its ruling council. Mohamed ElBaradei, who has been put forward as interim prime minister, defended the arrests but said due legal process should be followed. ? The US ambassador to Egypt, Anne Patterson, and the Muslim Brotherhood knew of the army's intention to take over as early 23 June, according to AP. Morsi failed to find allies in the army to prevent the coup, its sources said. Egyptian troops did not open fire on supporters of the ousted president Mohamed Morsi on Friday, an army spokesman said, after security sources said three demonstrators were shot dead by security forces in a protest near where Morsi is being held. When they did so, shots were fired into the air and within a minute shots were fired into the crowd. He saw one bearded man killed. There is considerable shock and anger in the area, Bowen told BBC News. Asked about the scale of the protest Patrick said Nasr city was ?as full as I?ve ever seen it . The Muslim Brotherhood has posted footage purporting to show tens of thousands of its supporters taking part in rallies against the coup in the port city of Alexandria and in Alminya, south of Cario. In response to this, and pro-Morsi rallies elsewhere, Egypt's liberal coalition has issued an urgent call for its supporters to demonstrate against Islamists. Khaled Dawoud, spokesman for the National Coalition Front, told Reuters that plans by Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood and their Islamist allies to hold protests on Friday amounted to a counter-revolution . As mandated by the relevant AU instruments, the African Union Peace and Security Council decides to suspend the participation of Egypt in AU activities until the restoration of constitutional order, said Admore Kambudzi, secretary of the council. Suspension is the AU's usual response to any interruption of constitutional rule by a member state. In March it suspended the Central African Republic after rebels overthrew the government. In recent years, it has meted out similar treatment to Madagascar and Mali, although Mali's suspension has since been lifted. Opposition leader Mohamed ElBaradei, who has been put forward as an interim prime minister, has defended the army's takeover and supported the temporary arrest of senior members of the Muslim Brotherhood. In an interview with the BBC, the Nobel laureate said: It is not the army who took over, it is the army who acted on behalf of the people. He insisted that the Brotherhood should be part of the political process in Egypt. But, asked about the arrest of senior brotherhood figures, ElBaradei said: Yes for a couple of days ? because they have been plotting, they have been asking their supporters to use arms. He insisted that those arrested should face a proper legal process. They need to go through the court procedures. We don't want any anti-democratic measures. I hope this situation will be put to rest in the next few days. The UN's human rights chief Navi Pillay has expressed her alarm about reports of a roundup of the Muslim Brotherhood's leadership in Egypt. I urge a major effort by all political parties, and the authorities, to deter and punish any acts of vengeance. Her spokesman Rupert Colville told a regular UN briefing that specific crimes would need to have been committed to justify the detentions of the Muslim Brotherhood's leaders, Reuters reports. We don't really know the details and what the basis of these detentions is. Obviously if you detain or arrest someone there needs to be, according to the law, a very good reason to do so, he said. There needs to be due process. Asked if Egypt's new rulers should make clear why the figures were being detained or release them, he said: I think that's a perfectly reasonable interpretation. Demonstrations happen regularly across Egypt, often on Fridays. Some have been violent and resulted in deaths. Given the military intervention on Wednesday 3 July we expect demonstrations on Friday 5 July to be particularly widespread and tense with the potential for violence to flare up unpredictably. Police may use tear gas for crowd control. You should avoid all demonstrations and large gatherings. If you become aware of any nearby protests, leave the area immediately. Egypt?s transitional authorities should ensure prompt, impartial investigations to determine who was responsible for killings during the political unrest since late June, in which at least 32 people have died. In the clash near Cairo University, the dead included both local residents and Morsi supporters ... Human Rights Watch spoke with six of the people injured in the clashes as well as other witnesses. Supporters of Morsi said that civilians ? whom they could not identify but described as ?thugs?, or?baltagiya?? and security forces were responsible for some killings. Residents of the area said that Brotherhood supporters attacked them, and shot and injured a police officer. People here feel very much under the cosh. Some of them are fearing a return to the kind of repression of Islamist figures that we had during the Mubarak era and before. Talking to the senior Muslim Brotherhood figures who remain at large, there was a real feeling of victimisation. AP has more on plans for today's pro-Morsi protests and overnight unrest. Suspected Islamic militants opened fire at four sites in northern Sinai, targeting two military checkpoints, a police station and el-Arish airport, where military aircraft are stationed, security officials said. The military and security responded to the attacks, and one soldier was killed and three were wounded, according to security officials ... The Muslim Brotherhood harder-line Islamist allies called for a wave of protests Friday, naming it the Friday of Rage, vowing to escalate if the military does not back down. Brotherhood officials urged their followers to keep their protests peaceful. Thousands of Morsi supporters remained massed in front of a Cairo mosque where they have camped for days, with line of military armoured vehicles across the road keeping watch. We declare our complete rejection of the military coup staged against the elected president and the will of the nation, the Brotherhood said in a statement, read by senior cleric Abdel-Rahman el-Barr to the crowd outside the Rabia al-Adawiya Mosque in Cairo. We refuse to participate in any activities with the usurping authorities, the statement said, while urging Morsi supporters to remain peaceful. The Rabia al-Adawiya protesters planned to march Friday to the Ministry of Defence. Meanwhile, the National Salvation Front, the main opposition coalition under Morsi's presidency, appears to be divided on the army's witch hunt against the Muslim Brotherhood. Reconciliation is the name of the game, including the Muslim Brotherhood. We need to be inclusive, Munir Fakhry Abdel-Nour, a leading member of the group, told The Associated Press. The detentions are a mistake. The Front has proposed one of its top leaders, Mohamed ElBaradei, to become prime minister under the interim president Adli Mansour. But ElBaradei has supported the roundup of Islamists, according to the New York Times. He said he had been assured they would receive due process and that tthe shut-down Islamist TV broadcasters had incited violence. ?I would be the first one to shout loud and clearly if I see any sign of regression in terms of democracy,? he said. Egyptian democracy, the stability of the country and the peaceful coexistence of its groups are right now in a deeply worrying place. With the former president and his staff?s liberty under control, the recent moves to arrest Brotherhood leaders and allies, and the immediate blackout of allied religious channels, there is reason to be deeply concerned, and many are worried of a witch hunt against Islamists. What is also troubling is that the return of a police state in this current scenario is a very likely possibility, and potentially with the large blessing of a public that is now worried of Islamist violence and is in desperate need for stability ... Egypt will never find stability, and its democracy will never thrive, without inclusiveness, fairness, due process and separation of powers. The Brotherhood and its big base cannot be excluded or treated outside of due process. Repression, especially of a genuinely sizable, believing and passionate public group, will only lead to an explosion. This was a popular and genuine?uprising against Morsi. These were undeniably?the largest ever and the most self-driven protests in Egypt's history. Nonetheless, the role of the military and its actions surely give us cause for concern, and what became of the first civilian and democratically elected president is troubling.? According to one official, Morsi delivered the final, terse response to [Head of the army Abdul Fatah] al-Sisi's demand: Over my dead body! On Monday, the armed forces announced they had given Morsi 48 hours to meet the protesters' demands or face military intervention. In reality, however, the countdown had begun as early as June 23, when Sisi gave Morsi and the opposition a week to work out their differences ? a remote possibility given the wide gap between both sides. Brotherhood officials said they saw the end coming based on Sisi's comments nine full days before Morsi's actual ouster. We knew it was over on 23 June Western ambassadors told us that, said another Brotherhood spokesman. US Ambassador Anne Patterson was one of the envoys, he added. Morsi searched for allies in the army, ordering two top aides ? Asaad el-Sheikh and Rifaah el-Tahtawy ? to establish contact with potentially sympathetic officers in the 2nd Field Army based in Port Said and Ismailia on the Suez Canal. The objective was to find army allies to use as a bargaining chip with el-Sissi, security officials with firsthand knowledge of the contacts said. There were no signs that Morsi's overtures had any effect, but Sisi, on learning of the contacts, took no chances. He issued directives to all unit commanders not to engage in any contacts with the presidential palace and, as a precaution, dispatched elite troops to units whose commanders had been contacted by Morsi's aides. Welcome to Middle East Live where we will continue live updates on Egypt as the Muslim Brotherhood plans a day of rejection of the military coup that ousted Mohamed Morsi. Here's a roundup of the latest developments: ??Supporters of Morsi are expected to take to the streets after Friday prayers following a series of raids and arrests that decimated the Muslim Brotherhood's senior ranks and consolidated the miltary's hold on the country.?The group's supreme leader, Mohamed al-Badie, who was untouchable under Morsi's rule, was reported to be one of those arrested. But the Brotherhood later issued a statement denying the report. ? The army said it would tolerate peaceful protests after a night which saw violence in the Nile Delta and the Sinai peninsula, according to an AFP report in the Telegraph. The statement warned that violence and civil disobedience, such as blocking roads, would ?harm social peace?. ? Police used teargas and rubber bullets to try to break up a protest by Morsi supporters in the city of Zagazig, Ahram Online reports.?Egypt's health ministry reported that 80 had been injured by rubber bullets, rocks, batons and bladed weapons. Hanan Amin, chairwoman of the Brotherhood?s Freedom and Justice party in the area, was quoted by the Muftah website as saying:? ?? Some Islamists have vowed to stay on the streets until Morsi is restored to power. Speaking to our reporter Martin Chulov in Cairo, 24-year-old Nour Zakaria said: If Morsi is forced to leave the palace, we will remain here and the cycle of street protests will become a permanent fixture in Egyptian life. But many others supported the military's action.? Others wore taekwondo vests, and piled stones near the entrances to their precinct ? ready to fling them at any potential invader. ??Barack Obama?called on Egypt's generals to move quickly to restore democratic government after his secretary of state, John Kerry, and defence minister, Chuck Hagel, held calls with Egypt's military.? A White House statement said: