How much does the British public know about royal babies past and present? We ask people for their suggestions for naming a future monarch As Kate and Wills prepare to open a new chapter in the royal fairytale, it's hard to keep a po-face ? especially where noble nappies are concerned From a history of regal nappies to a tale of bringing up baby Windsor-style, there's something for every budding royalist in the cash-in crop of royal baby books The Duchess of Cornwall says she hopes Kate and William's baby will arrive by the end of the week Magazine publisher's Kate and William's Birth Celebration app will move faster than print. By Stuart Dredge Share stories of your July newborns which, despite not being royal, are just as special in a celebration of UK babies everywhere Removing asbestos and improving the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's new family home has cost the taxpayer more than ?1.1m, it was revealed today. Is it a fair use of public funds? Apartment used as office space since death of Princess Margaret is to be new home of Duke and Duchess of Cambridge Originally published in the Manchester Guardian on 24 June 1894: The Duchess of York gives birth to a son - the future Edward VIII - who stands third in line to the throne Booties, blankets, biscuits ? the newest royal hasn't even been born yet but the souvenir market is already cashing in. Anyone need an HRH bib? Royal baby will be born in same private maternity facilities as Princes William and Harry, it is understood The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge show off various talents during a visit to the Donald Dewar leisure centre in Glasgow on Thursday Deborah Orr: The monarchy locks people in a gilded cage and denies them the most basic freedom of all?? the freedom to?be themselves Steve Bell's If ? The prince's latest love story is entwined with the archetypal ritual of wealth being matched with pedigree From a personalised number plate to baby booties and dog bandanas, the royals have received a variety of gifts on their overseas tour. See what presents the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have been given Statement on Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's baby also ends speculation that couple were expecting twins Birth month confirmed by St James's Palace as duchess's condition continues to improve after last month's hospital stay Specialised textiles are still going strong in their long-standing heartland as London shoppers are about to be shown