New uncle Prince Harry says the birth of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's baby, Prince George, is a fantastic addition to the royal family In the absence of an official poem from Carol Ann Duffy, please mark the new royal arrival with a poem of your own John Mullan: In choosing a name popular with the House of Windsor, William and Kate have side-stepped a number of traps from royal history The Duchess of Cambridge gave birth to a boy on Monday, Prince George of Cambridge, who is third in line to the throne George Washington, George III, George Eliot, George Orwell, George Best, George Bush, George Clooney ? the new royal baby's name has had a mixed history. Are you a Georgian? The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have named their son George Alexander Louis on Wednesday. With the announcement that the newest addition to the royal family will be a George, here are some key numbers to remember about the name you might find it hard to forget ? By George, he's got it! The future king shares his name with six of his royal predecessors, as well as a host of Georges from the worlds of music, literature, TV, cinema and football. A lot to live up to ? Suzanne Moore: If the Duchess of Cambridge wants to live like common people, she should give birth like common people do Production for new range of royal china had to wait until Duke and Duchess of Cambridge settled on a name for their son Media Monkey: Broadcasters had to decide who asked the first question of the royal couple by flipping a coin Should you find yourself wondering where you can get your hands on a dress like the one worn by the Duchess of Cambridge, then this Asos dress ticks a few of the same boxes Meeting is first time since 1894 that monarch has seen great-grandchild directly in line to the throne Jason Goldman: Research suggests a baby's name can determine personality, dating habits, self-esteem and the likelihood of smoking ITV's extended live coverage of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge leaving hospital eclipsed BBC1's average of 3.3 million. By Jason Deans David Banks: The new heir to throne will need similar protection from intrusion as his father had, but will the PCC's replacement be up to it? Duke and Duchess of Cambridge show off young son on steps of hospital in London and say they are 'working on a name' Royal baby-fever was at its peak as a determined crowd stood through rain and shine for the family to make their appearance Packed in front of St Mary's hospital, the world's media could feed only on scraps before the new prince made an appearance Simon Jenkins: The third in line to the throne cannot expect to enjoy the slightest privacy. The media drones are already overhead