Top stories | From the Guardian | The Guardian 		 	 	 	 		 			 							 	 	 	 	 	 		 Turn autoplay off Turn autoplay on Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off 	Jump to content [s] 				Jump to site navigation [0] 		Jump to search [4] 		Terms and conditions [8] 	 		 	 	 Edition: UK US AU Your activity Email subscriptions Account details Linked services Sign out Beta 			 	 	 							 		 			 						 		 	 		 					 	 	 	 			 			 		 					 	 	 			 					 	 		 			 	 				 				 		 							 	 	 		 						News 					 												 																			 						US 					 												 																			 						World 					 												 																			 						Sports 					 												 																			 						Comment 					 												 																			 						Culture 					 												 																			 						Business 					 												 																			 						Money 					 												 																			 						Environment 					 												 																			 						Science 					 												 																			 						Travel 					 												 																			 						Tech 					 												 																			 						Media 					 												 																			 						Life & style 					 												 																								 						Data 					 									 										 News Top stories 					 				 				 	 		 										 	 	 		 		 RSS 			The Guardian: Main section 			Thursday 25 July 2013 		 		 			 	 	 			 			 	Front page Syria's exodus: a refugee crisis for the world 	 		 	 				 	Western countries may be asked to accept refugees as aid officials say population flight is becoming permanent 	 		 	 Prince George: royal couple choose name fit for a king 	 		 	 				 	The royal baby is to be called George Alexander Louis or His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge, for short Top stories p2 Spanish train crash: 78 killed and 130 injured in derailment 	 		 	 				 	Train jumps tracks on 'difficult curve' on approach to north-western city of Santiago de Compostela 	 		 	 NHS faces chronic shortage of staff, warns King's Fund 	 		 	 				 	Deepening gaps in service's workforce are so serious that bosses are under pressure to alter pay agreements to attract staff 	 		 	 George Osborne to hail GDP figures as return to sustained economic growth 	 		 	 				 	Experts predict 0.6% rise in GDP for second quarter but Labour will claim that feelgood factor is still a long way off 	 		 	 Top stories p3 Alan Partridge goes back to Norwich roots for Alpha Papa movie premiere 	 		 	 				 	Warm welcome for DJ and presenter, aka Steve Coogan, in fictional home as his 'love letter to Norwich' is unveiled 	 		 	 Alan Partridge: Alpha Papa ? first look review 	 		 	 				 	The cinematic debut of Steve Coogan's bumbling talk show host is a quietly audacious triumph 	 		 	 Top stories p19 Rape and domestic violence follow Syrian women into refugee camps 	 		 	 				 	Victims hide their shame to avoid being stigmatised for life after assaults by marauding gangs 	 		 	 Syrian refugee crisis escalates as 25% of country driven out of homes 	 		 	 				 	Guardian to devote day of coverage to plight of those uprooted by fighting, to ensure their voice is not lost amid the rhetoric 	 		 	 The children's book offering hope for the displaced children of Syria 	 		 	 				 	Mirren Gidda: British-based Samah Zaitoun's Far From Home intended to help explain to Syrian children living in camps why they can't go home yet 	 		 	 Top stories p20 Syria's refugees: Sena 	 		 	 				 	'What mother could sleep easy when her sons are fighting a war?' 	 		 	 Syria's refugees: Murhaf 	 		 	 				 	'Many Turks started to attack Syrians after the bombs went off. But now I get along very well with all of my Turkish neighbours' 	 		 	 Syria's refugees: Hamza 	 		 	 				 	'I was wounded fighting in Syria. I am here to rest' 	 		 	 Syria's refugees: Um Hamza 	 		 	 				 	'I prefer to die in my country rather than fleeing to a refugee camp' 	 		 	 Syria's refugees: Basil Yousif 					 	'Syria today is like a piece of meat in the hands of many butchers who are mincing it with sharp knifes' 	 		 	 Top stories p21 Syria's refugees: Munaf Obeidi 	 		 	 				 	'My wife and children decided to go back to Syria' 	 		 	 Syria's refugees: Um Muhammad 					 	'Soldiers shot my husband at the front door. When my son came to find out what was going on, he was killed too' 	 		 	 Syria's refugees: Iman Hassan 					 	'We want to see an end to all this killing and chaos' 	 		 	 Top stories p22 Syria: UN child specialists warn of new 'lost generation' amid crisis 	 		 	 				 	Two and a half years of ever-worsening war has deprived children of education and family ties, and left many vulnerable 	 		 	 Syrian refugees suffer backlash in Egypt after Mohamed Morsi's removal 	 		 	 				 	Community activists say refugees face harassment over their presumed support for ousted president's Muslim Brotherhood 	 		 	 		 		 			 Main section 				 	 						 Top stories p1-22 							 						 UK news p4-14 							 						 International p15-18 							 						 Financial p23-25 							 						 Reviews page 27 							 						 Comment & debate p28-29 							 						 Editorials & reply p30-31 							 						 Obituaries page 32 							 						 Sport p33-40 G2 				 	 						 Comment & features p2-12 							 						 Arts p16-19 							 						 TV and radio in G2 p21-22 							 						 Puzzles and cartoon page 24 Special supplement 				 	 						 Special supplement page 12 			 		 		 			 	 	 		 										 			Guardian and Observer archive 		 		 						Jul 2013 													 							 							 													 								 											 				 M 					T 					W 					T 					F 					S 					S 				 1 																														 												 																											2 																														 												 																											3 																														 												 																											4 																														 												 																											5 																														 												 																											6 																														 												 																																	7 																										 8 																														 												 																											9 																														 												 																											10 																														 												 																											11 																														 												 																											12 																														 												 																											13 																														 												 																																	14 																										 15 																														 												 																											16 																														 												 																											17 																														 												 																											18 																														 												 																											19 																														 												 																											20 																														 												 																																	21 																										 22 																														 												 																											23 																														 												 																											24 																														 												 																											25 																														 												 																											26 																														 												 																											27 																														 												 																																	28 																										 29 																														 												 																											30 																														 												 																											31 																														 												 																			1 																							 												 																			2 																							 												 																			3 																							 												 																									4 																			 			 			 Read the paper exactly as it was printed Subscribe to the Guardian and Observer Digital Editions Read today's Guardian 			 	 			 	 			 	 		 	 		 		 	 	 	 		 	 					 							 		 	 Other services 				 				 			 						 	 		 			 			 											 		 	 Crossword 													 	 		 	 		 						 			 			 																 		 		 	 						 	 			 	 			 										 			 							 																																											 			 			 		 					 	 		 	 		 					 									 										 					 										 					 					 					 					 					 				 						 	 		 			 			 											 		 	 Sudoku 													 	 		 	 		 						 			 			 																 		 		 	 						 	 			 	 			 										 			 							 																																											 			 			 		 					 	 		 	 		 					 									 										 					 										 					 					 					 					 					 				 						 	 		 			 			 											 		 	 Weather 													 	 		 	 		 						 			 			 																 		 		 	 						 	 			 	 			 										 			 							 																																									 	 		 										 			 						 					 					 					 	 		 	 		 					 									 										 					 										 					 					 					 					 					 				 						 	 		 			 			 											 		 	 TV listings 													 	 		 	 		 						 			 			 														 										 			 							 																																											 			 			 		 					 	 		 	 		 					 									 										 					 										 					 					 					 					 					 				 						 	 		 			 			 											 		 	 Digital archive 													 	 		 	 		 						 			 			 														 										 			 							 																																											 			 			 		 					 	 		 	 		 					 									 										 					 										 					 					 					 					 					 				 						 			 						 		 	 Contact us 		 	 					 									 										 					 										 					 					 					 					 					 				 						 	 		 			 			 											 		 	 To send a letter for publication, email guardian.letters@ theguardian.com or observer.letters@ observer.co.uk We do not publish letters where only an email address is supplied; please include a full postal address, a reference to the article and a daytime telephone number. We may edit letters. Submission and publication of all letters is subject to our terms and conditions. 													 	 		 	 		 						 			 			 														 										 			 							 																																											 			 			 		 					 	 		 	 		 					 							 	 		 	 	 	 	 		 										 			 						 					 										 	 	 		 			 	 		 											 				 			 			 						 					 										 	 	 		 			 	 		 											 		 	 		 						 		 	 Today's best video 			 		 			 										 					 																																										 			 			 		 	 					 																																											 		 		 		 			 	 		 						 										 	 			 		 	 					 																																										 			 	 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 Fox News expert: Birmingham is a 'totally Muslim' city 					 					 																																										 			 			 		 			 			 											 			Steven Emerson, who claims to be a terrorism expert, tells Fox News that Birmingham is a 'totally Muslim city' and London is patrolled by violent religious police 		 	 					 																																									 														 																						 										 					 																																										 			 			 		 	 					 																																											 		 		 		 			 	 		 						 										 	 			 		 	 					 																																										 			 	 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 Muslim drag queens 					 					 																																										 			 			 		 			 			 											 			Meet Ali, a gay Pakistani asylum-seeker preparing for his first performance as a drag queen 		 	 					 																																									 														 																						 										 					 																																										 			 			 		 	 					 																																											 		 		 		 			 	 		 						 										 	 			 		 	 					 																																										 			 	 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 'Je suis Charlie': George and Amal Clooney at Golden Globes 					 					 																																										 			 			 		 			 			 											 			Hollywood stars show support for freedom of expression 		 	 					 																																									 														 																						 										 					 																																										 			 			 		 	 					 																																											 		 		 		 			 	 		 						 										 	 			 		 	 					 																																										 			 	 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 Formerly blind Orangutang released into wild 					 					 																																										 			 			 		 			 			 											 			How an orangutan was rescued and cured of blindness in Sumatra 		 	 					 																																									 														 							 	 				 			 			 						 					 										 	 	 		 			 	 		 											 	 	 		 				 			 			 						 					 										 	 	 		 			 	On the Guardian 	 	 		 			 Most viewed Latest Last 24 hours 1.? Media: 								Fox News man is 'idiot' for Birmingham Muslim comments ? David Cameron 2. UK news: 								UK Ebola nurse no longer critically ill, hospital says 3. TV & radio: 								Celebrity Big Brother 2015 ? a grim, unwatchable carnival of misery 4. Life & style: 								The sauces that fell from favour 5. Football: 								Falcao a symbol of Louis van Gaal?s Manchester United ?philosophy? problem 					 					More most viewed 					 Last 24 hours 1.? NMP set to lose contract to clean up Sellafield nuclear waste 2. Ballon d'Or ceremony: Cristiano Ronaldo v Lionel Messi v Manuel Neuer ? live! 3. Senator Claire McCaskill on run for Missouri governor in 2016: 'A firm no' 4. Two very different UK polls - we should ignore them both 5. Albuquerque police officers who shot homeless man to face murder charges 				 				All today's stories 				 				 			 			 						 					 										 	 	 		 			 	 		 													 	 	 	 		 					 			 	 				 			 	 		 										 			 						 					 										 				 			 		 		 	 		 										 			 						 					 										 	 	 		 			 	 		 											 	 	 		 			 			 		 				 			 	 	 	 		 	 		 	 	 	 	 		 										 			 						 					 					 				 			 	 	 	 		 	 License/buy our content 					 | 			 				 																																										 			 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 Privacy policy 					 | 			 				 																																										 			 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 Terms of service 					 | 			 				 																																										 			 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 US advertising 					 | 			 				 																																										 			 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 A - Z index 					 | 			 				 																																										 			 	 	 	 				 		 		 	 About us 					 			 		 	 ? 2015 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.