Denies the woman?s claims he threw a wine bottle at her and destroyed her cellphone after a confrontation on Friday night Zimmerman charged with domestic aggravated assault with a weapon as judge orders avoidance of contact with alleged female victim Hannah Giorgis: The hard truth about no justice for Michael Brown is that we must reassess our expectations to create a new kind of peace Amanda Robb: Is crowd-sourced funding the new public defender? Just ask the killers of Trayvon Martin and Michael Brown ? or the secret conservatives who pay their legal fees Ana Marie Cox: Statehouses are supposed to be America's laboratory, but the experiments are rigged. Welcome to Stand Your Ground 2.0 Teresa Wiltz: Zimmerman and DMX might do a 'celebrity' boxing match for 'charity'. It would be a new low in get-rich-quick schemes After previous Zimmerman work sold for more than $100,000, AP seeks halt of sale of painting depicting state prosecutor Jonathan Jones: The Florida neighbourhood watchman acquitted over the death of Trayvon Martin is selling a painting on eBay, and bids have reached $110,100. Why does Zimmerman fascinate America? Zimmerman had shotgun, AR-15 assault rifle and three handguns when he was arrested over domestic violence charges in November Michael P Jeffries: There's a presumption of white innocence. It reflects a society rife with institutional racism and prejudice against people of color George Zimmerman, 30, released on bail after being arrested Monday on charges of?aggravated assault with a deadly weapon Police said the pair had lived together since August, one month after Zimmerman?s acquittal of the murder of Trayvon Martin Legal action is being taken against the director by an elderly couple whose address Lee wrongly tweeted as being the home of Trayvon Martin killer George Zimmerman Appeals court grants a new trial for woman sentenced to 20 years for firing a gun into the air during a domestic dispute Series of indiscreet emails reveals how Lake Mary chief Steve Bracknell believes Zimmerman, 29, to be 'ticking time bomb' Police called to investigate domestic dispute at house in Lake Mary, Florida ??but Shellie Zimmerman opts not to press charges Shellie Zimmerman seeks divorce from Florida neighbourhood watch leader acquitted of murdering Trayvon Martin Shellie Zimmerman sentenced to 12 months' probation after admitting lying about donations to her husband's defence fund Not enough evidence to show motive for the killing of 22-year-old Australian, police in Oklahoma say David Dennis: We live in a society deeply disjointed by race. We need debate and reconciliation, yes ? but not white America's condescension Ana Marie Cox: Oddly, the first black president can do little to right racial wrongs, but the first African-American attorney general does much Gary Younge: Manning, Snowden and Trayvon Martin: a series of legal cases is making US citizens re-evaluate what the state is really for Anthea Butler: America may be a nation of 'free speech', but be prepared to be bullied and harassed for speaking up, especially on race In an interview on ABC News, juror 'B29' in the Trayvon Martin case says George Zimmerman 'got away with murder'. Do you agree? David Dennis: I used to revere these two prominent black intellectuals. But lately, their critical voices have turned to crude Obama-bashing