There are uncanny echoes of the politics of Stephen Lawrence case in the acquittal on Saturday in Florida of George Zimmerman, the neighbourhood watch volunteer who shot Trayvon Martin, an unarmed teenager, having assumed him to be a criminal. It took 44 days after Martin's death and a national campaign in the US for Zimmerman to be arrested. In that time, evidence was lost as the Florida police insisted that the state's law on self-defence barred them from bringing charges. The prosecutors said the case was not about race. Before the trial began, Judge Deborah Nelson forbade the use of the term racial profiling in the courtroom, and yet, without the element of race, Martin might still be alive today. Zimmerman's pursuit of and confrontation with him was premised on the assumption that the very presence of a black teenager in a gated community was sufficient cause for alarm. Like the Lawrence case, the Martin trial has attracted national scrutiny, not always helpful to the cause of justice. Barack Obama said before the trial that if he had a son, he would look like Trayvon. On Sunday, the president said the acquittal should be met with calm reflection, and reminded Americans that theirs was a nation of laws. Put those two comments together, and the limits of presidential empathy in the face of acquittal become evident. The question this case poses is: whose laws? Try as commentators might to tiptoe around the fact, the size of the frame in which these cases are judged is enormous. The jury decided that the evidence did not exist to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Martin was an innocent victim, but that does little to discharge the police and prosecutor of their responsibility for finding and presenting that evidence. Whether justice stooped as low in this case as it did in Alabama in 1965, when Jimmie Lee Jackson, an army veteran on a march in support of a voter-registration drive was shot twice in the stomach by a state trooper, is doubtful. Yet although the racial dynamics may have changed from the days of the civil rights movement ? the teenager's assailant was a Latino ? the message an acquittal sends out to African American parents is familiar: there are few places after dark where your sons are safe, either from the police or from the colour of the law. If someone like Zimmerman assumes your son is a threat, the risk is it's open season. Police commissioners claim that tough stop-and-frisk policies clean up the streets, even though no such effect can be definitively established in New York or elsewhere. What matters now is to deal with the damage the verdict has done. As the Lawrence case has shown, the verdict and justice remain miles apart, sending out devastating messages that cannot be ignored.