It's been a good week for the British Royal family. The arrival of Prince George Alexander Louis, son of Prince William and Kate Middleton, captivated the world. After making his debut on Tuesday, the third in line to the throne is now out of public view--for now. But a number of hotels are still paying homage to anything royal, some with deals for travelers. Some examples: OnlyBidding.com is offering 20% off all bookings made before July 31 at any hotel with the word Royal in its name. Do you have the same name as the Little Prince? If so, at the JW Marriott Desert Springs Resort & Spa, you'll get a room upgrade, if available, anytime during the month after the name announcement. Don't worry. You don't have to have all three of his names. You just have to have George as a first name. InterContinental Hotels & Resorts is taking a different approach, using the fascination with royalty to raise money for the hungry. Starting Monday, 16 InterContinental properties across the USA, Canada, Costa Rica and Argentina will have a Fit for Royalty menu with recipes designed by 20 members of Le Club des Chefs de Chefs, the organization of chefs to the world's Heads of State. Among the participants will be the personal chefs of Queen Elizabeth II of England, Prince Albert II of Monaco, Queen Margrethe II of Denmark, and King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand. The chefs of presidents and prime ministers, including President Obama's, will also share their recipes. Portions of the proceeds will go to local food banks. A sample recipe: Zucchini flowers stuffed with vegetables by Christian Garcia, chef to Prince Albert II of Monaco, which will be available at the Willard InterContinental in Washington, D.C. On Saturday, the chefs, along with InterContinental New York Barclay Hotel's Executive Chef Serge Devesa and community group City Harvest. will present 10 of their recipes at a lunch for more than 200 New Yorkers in need at the Xavier Mission. It's a growing dilemma and anything that we can do to try to raise the profile and improve awareness, I think will hopefully help, says Mark Flanagan, chef to Queen Elizabeth II. Flanagan says the chefs designed the menu with a good mix of traditional and modern dishes. The idea was to make sure that it was balanced and offered plenty of variety ... as well as being clearly identifiable with the country of the cuisine, he says. As for his country's big news, Flanagan had to keep mostly mum about it, though he did say that after days of watching hordes of media waiting for any news outside of Buckingham Palace, I think there was a huge sigh of relief.