ORLANDO, Fla -- U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Tuesday that it's time to question laws that expand self-defense - such as Florida's stand your ground law ? in the wake of the George Zimmerman acquittal. A day after he called Trayvon Martin's death unnecessary, Holder told people at a national convention of the NAACP that such laws can be dangerous and that the federal government plans to do a thorough investigation into the Feb. 26, 2012, fatal shooting. It's time to question laws that senselessly expand the concept of self-defense and sow dangerous conflict in our neighborhoods, said Holder, of stand-your-ground laws. These laws try to fix something that was never broken. There has always been a legal defense for using deadly force if ? and the 'if' is important ? no safe retreat is available. A jury in Sanford, Fla., found Zimmerman, 29, not guilty of second-degree murder and manslaughter in the fatal shooting of Trayvon, 17. Zimmerman, a Hispanic neighborhood watch volunteer, claimed self-defense. State prosecutors said Zimmerman profiled and murdered Trayvon ? then lied about initiating the fight. A federal investigation into the death of Trayvon was opened last year, and prosecutors from the Justice Department's civil rights division will review evidence from the FBI and the Florida criminal trial. NAACP leader Benjamin Jealous has called for the Justice Department to file civil rights charges against Zimmerman. Holder said it's time collectively resolve to combat gun violence to prevent future tragedies. He added that after Trayvon's death he talked to his teen son about how to interact with police and others as a black man. Holder's father had the same conversation with Holder. I had to do this to protect my boy, Holder said. We must confront the underlying attitudes, mistaken beliefs, and unfortunate stereotypes that serve too often as the basis for police action and private judgments. Holder added that people have the right through peaceful protests, rallies, and vigils to have responsible debates and avoid violence. Dozens of people gave Holder loud applause ? at times interrupting his speech to the NAACP with praise. I thought it was a great speech, said James Davis, an NAACP member from Covington, La. This is about the American people, not just African Americans and minorities but all people. Davis, 67, a retired postal letter carrier, said he trusts the Obama administration will look into the shooting of Trayvon and do what is right based on the facts of the case. Alice Jones, of Fayetteville, Ga., wants the government to not only look into Trayvon's death but into the make up of the jury for Zimmerman's trial. I think there is still bias, she said. None of them were of African American decent and I don't think they had compassion for the African American culture. They tried to denigrate Rachel Jeantel. Jeantel, who is black, was the young woman on the phone with Trayvon moments before he died. Jurors struggled to hear her during her trial testimony. One juror publicly said Monday that Jeantel was difficult to understand because of her education and her communication skills. Jones, 66, a youth advisor for the Fayette County NAACP says she wants to know how such comments can be acceptable and whether the jury's makeup affected the verdict. We need action and we need it now, the retired tax auditor said. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius also addressed the shooting of Trayvon Martin at the NAACP's national convention. The death of Trayvon Martin was tragedy for his family and his community, but it's also a tragedy for our country, Sebelius said. But so are the tragedies of all the children we lost because of gun violence before and since Trayvon Martin. She said officials are praying and respect their call for calm reflection. People should reflect on how to prevent future tragedies such as mass school shootings and daily violence on street corners. She added that President Obama hasn't given up on common sense gun actions, Sebelius said. In his speech a few minutes later, Holder gave concerted reasons why he wants to look into self-defense laws. By allowing ? and perhaps encouraging ? violent situations to escalate in public, such laws undermine public safety, Holder said.