WASHINGTON ? Attorney General Eric Holder called the death of Trayvon Martin unnecessary Monday and vowed to proceed with a civil rights inquiry after the acquittal of George Zimmerman on murder and manslaughter charges. In his first public comments since Saturday's jury verdict in the racially charged case, Holder told a convention of the nation's largest black sorority that the federal government is determined to meet division and confusion with understanding and compassion ? and also with truth.'' The Justice Department shares your concern. I share your concern, Holder told the Delta Sigma Theta delegates to thunderous applause. A jury in Sanford, Fla., found Zimmerman, 29, not guilty of second-degree murder and manslaughter in the fatal shooting of Trayvon, 17, in February 2012. Zimmerman, a Latino neighborhood watch volunteer, claimed self-defense. Trayvon was black. The shooting drew nationwide attention, protests and claims of racial profiling ? as did the verdict. NAACP leader Benjamin Jealous was among those who called Saturday night for the Justice Department to file civil rights charges against Zimmerman. Holder is scheduled to address the NAACP's national convention Tuesday in Orlando, Fla. By Monday afternoon, more than 325,000 people have signed an online petition started by the NAACP on MoveOn.org calling on the Justice Department to open a civil rights case against Zimmerman. Sunday, Justice officials said they were reviewing the case. This tragedy provides yet another opportunity for our nation to speak honestly about the complicated and emotionally charged issues that this case has raised,'' Holder told the sorority delegates. We must not ? as we have too often in the past ? let this opportunity pass.'' The attorney general urged calm in recognition of Martin's parents who have lost the most.'' They suffered a pain that no parent should have to endure ? and one that I, as a father, cannot begin to conceive,'' Holder said. Even as we embrace their example and hold them in our prayers, we must not forgo this opportunity to better understand one another and to make better this nation we cherish.'' Discussing the federal investigation, opened last year, Holder said authorities will continue to act in a manner that is consistent with the facts and the law.'' We are committed to standing with the people of Sanford, with the individuals and families affected by this incident, and with our state and local partners in order to alleviate tensions, address community concerns and promote healing. ? And we will never stop working to ensure that ? in every case, in every circumstance and in every community ? justice must be done.'' Delegates said they looked forward to the federal inquiry's conclusions. A life was lost,'' said Roxanne Booth, 52, a New York pastor. To have an acquittal is to say that life didn't matter. It does matter.'' Lannie Fountain, 79, a delegate from Georgia, said the trial lacked an important voice. I felt like nobody spoke for Trayvon Martin.''