LATEST: Egypt ? Deputy Head of Armed Forces Quits as Presidential Advisor Jump to Latest Update Peaceful mass protests in Egypt ? the largest since the 2011 uprising that toppled the Mubarak regime ? turned into violence last night, with the killing of seven people and the burning of the Muslim Brotherhood?s headquarters in Cairo. In Cairo, hundreds of thousands answered the opposition Tamarod movement?s call to protest on the first anniversary of President Morsi?s inauguration, gathering in Tahrir Square and in front of the Presidential Palace. Demonstrators also turned out in at least 20 other Egyptian cities, including the second city Alexandria. The show of opposition, with calls for Morsi to leave office, dwarfed the pro=Government rally that continued in front of a mosque in Nasr City in Cairo. In the evening, clashes broke out near Muslim Brotherhood offices in several locations. At least four people were slain in the Nile Valley south of Cairo ? three in Assiut and one in Beni Sueif. One person died in Fayyoum, southwest of the capital, and one in Cairo near the Brotherhood?s headquarters in Moqattam. Late-night televised images were taken over by the blaze at the building, as hundreds of people threw petrol bombs and rocks. Brotherhood members inside the building and the assailants fired birdshot at each other. Latest Updates, From Top to Bottom Sami Anan, deputy chair of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, has resigned as military adviser to President Morsi. He reportedly did so in solidarity with protesters, calling on the ?brave Egyptian armed forces? to side with the people and their legitimate demands. Egypt Photo: Opposition Rallies in Tahrir Square, Alexandria, and Luxor Tonight The Muslim Brotherhood claim a crowd is trying to raid the home of leading businessman Khairat El Shater, who was prevented by a court from standing for President last year: Amr Moussa ? former Presidential candidate, Foreign Minister, and Secretary General of the Arab League ? has welcomed the army?s 48-hour ultimatum to politicians. ?Wasting more time will make things worse. The invitation to meet the demands of the people within the next few hours is a historical opportunity which should not be lost,? Moussa said. Egypt: Photo? Opposition ?Energized? By Military?s 48-Hour Ultimatum Opposition protesters in Cairo are ?energized? following the announcement Monday afternoon by the Supreme Council For the Armed Forces that it was giving a 48 hour deadline for the Muslim Brotherhood and political forces to address the demands of the people. Barbara Ibrahim from the American University in Cairo tweets: This image shows protesters outside the Presidential palace in Cairo: Egypt: Video ? Armed Forces Say If Brotherhood, Politicians Can?t Solve Crisis in 48 Hours, Military Will Announce ?Roadmap? The following video is the statement from the Egyptian military, as it appeared on State television on Monday afternoon, with a partial translation: Statement from the Armed Forces: Yesterday, Egypt and the whole world witnessed demonstrations and [that] the great people of Egypt came out to express their opinions and will peacefully and in civilized manner that was without precedent. Everyone saw the Egyptian people and heard their voices with the utmost respect and attention ? it is imperative that the people receive a response to this movement and to the appeal that each side bear some degree of responsibility in these dangerous circumstances that Egypt faces. The Egyptian Armed Forces, as a major party in the future equation, and with an historical and national responsibility to protect the safety and security of this nation, emphasizes the following: The national security of the state is at severe risk from the developments taking place in the country, and these have conferred on us to act each according to their responsibilities in order to prevent these risks. The armed forces has sensed early on the seriousness of the present situation and the demands of the great Egyptian people ? Therefore [the Armed Forces] have already identified a deadline of a week for all political forces in the country to agree and get out of the crisis, but this week has passed without the appearance of any gesture or act ? and this resulted in the people going out with determination and complete freedom in such a way that aroused a resounding admiration, appreciation and interest at an internal, regional and international level. The loss of more time will only bring more divison and struggles [...] The Armed Forces repeats its call that the demands of the people be heard and gives 48 hours as a last chance to take responsibility for the historical circumstances the country is passing through [...] If the demands of the great people of Egypt are not met within this deadline, the Armed Forces will be compelled, based on its national and historical responsibility and its respect for the demands of the great Egyptian people, to announce a road-map for the future and procedures for overseeing its implementation, and the participation of all factions and national trends including the youth [...] and without excluding anyone. The Egyptian military has issued an ultimatum to all political forces including the Muslim Brotherhood, ordering them to find an inclusive solution to the current crisis within 48 hours, Ahram Online reports. In a statement read out on Egyptian State television, the armed forces said that if no solution is found, the military will announce its own road-map for the future, ?and will enforce certain measures with the help of all factions including the youth, without excluding anyone,? Ahram Online say. Although the address by Egypt?s military is broadcast on State television, the speaker was not seen ? a spokesman?s voice was heard, as the State TV news screen displayed a static photograph. Egypt: 440,000 Officers Deployed To Secure Protests ? Interior Ministry Egypt?s Interior Ministry issued a statement on Monday to say that it has deployed 440,000 officers to secure the protests across the country. The statement said that the Ministry has taken unprecedented steps to ensure that citizens were safe during pro- and anti-government protests, including canceling all staff leave indefinitely while the unrest continues, Egypt Independent reports. Ahram Online posted this video interview with demonstrators in Cairo, who talk about why they are on the streets. One protester, a former general manager at the Central Bank, says he attended the demonstrations because the Muslim Brotherhood had ?hijacked the revolution and they will only be ousted with a revolution?. Another protester, Motaz Attalla, an educational researcher, expresses concerns over what will happen after the protests. ?The opposition is not well-organized or united,? Attalla says. Egypt?s recently-formed 30 June Front ? a coordinating body comprising various opposition groups under the leadership of the Tamarod movement ? called on Egyptians on Monday to commence civil disobedience. In a statement, the group asked citizens to remain on the streets until President Mohamed Morsi resigns from office. ?We ask [Egyptians] in all governorates to stop going to work and demonstrate in all squares and in governorate headquarters,? Ahram Online quoted the statement as saying. . Egypt Video: A Tour of Muslim Brotherhood?s Ransacked Cairo Headquarters Egypt: Muslim Brotherhood ?We Remain Committed to Non-Violence The Muslim Brotherhood says, via Twitter, that it will act peacefully despite the attack on its Cairo headquarters, ransacked this morning: The Brotherhood?s spokesman said a press conference would be held at 7:30 p.m. local time 1830 GMT . State news agency MENA says five ministers have resigned from the Morsi Government. The Egypt Independent and journalists say Hatem Begato, Minister of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs; Minister of State for Environmental Affairs Khaled Abdel-Aal; Minister of Tourism Hizzam Zaazou; and Atef Helmy, Minister of Communication, are among those who have resigned. The Ministry of Health adds last night?s casualty figures to those from the past week of violence: Jonathan Rugman of Britain?s Channel 4 News posts a series of updates: Egypt: Opposition ?Morsi Must Resign by Tuesday Afternoon? The opposition Tamarod movement, which organised mass protestson Sunday, has put out an ultimatum to the President, ?We give Mohamed Morsi until 5:00 pm 1500 GMT on Tuesday July 2 to leave power, allowing state institutions to prepare for early presidential elections.? If Morsi did not leave, the statement on the Tamarod website declared, ?Tuesday, 5:00 pm will be the beginning of a complete civil disobedience campaign.? Tamarod rejected calls for dialogue by Morsi?s office, ?There is no way to accept any halfway measures. There is no alternative other than the peaceful end of power of the Muslim Brotherhood and its representative, Mohamed Morsi.? The organization urged ?state institutions including the army, the police and the judiciary to clearly side with the popular will as represented by the crowds?. Iraqi officials said Monday that eight pro-Government Sunni militiamen were kidnapped and killed by gunmen north of Baghdad. The men were snatched from their houses in the town of Mishahda and surrounding villages during the past two days, a police officer said. He added that their dead bodies were left in an orchard on Monday with gunshot wounds to their heads and chests. Some had their hands bound behind their backs. At least 15 people were killed in attacks on Sunday, including nine in a bombing at a football pitch in southeast Baghdad. Another 25 people were wounded in the attack in the Nahrawan neighbourhood. Most of the victims were boys under the age of 16. Attacks outside the capital killed four people, while officials also found the bodies of two men who had been shot dead. Among the victims was a 17-year-old girl killed by a roadside bomb near Dawr, north of Baghdad. The latest attacks pushed the nationwide death toll for June to 448. More than 1,000 people died in unrest across Iraq in April and May, with the UN putting the total at more than 1,750. Egypt Picture: Protesters ?As Far as Eye Can See? Outside Presidential Palace An image of the size of last night?s opposition demonstrations in Cairo: A notable extract from a midnight press conference by Presidential spokesman Omar Amer: There are protests; this is a reality. We don?t underestimate the scale of the protests, and we don?t underestimate the scale of the demands?. Do you have a better idea [for change]? Do you have an initiative? Suggest a solution and we?re willing to consider it seriously. Video of uniformed police officers joining Sunday?s demonstrations against the Government, calling for a military coup: