By Jill Reilly and Suzannah Hills and James Rush and Amanda Williams Published: 04:04 EST, 2 July 2013 | Updated: 05:53 EST, 4 July 2013 It is feared as many as 23 people have been killed in clashes between supporters and opponents of Egypt's president as the country faces the prospect of civil war. The death toll comes after a night of violence outside Cairo University, which also left? 200 injured. President Mohammed Morsi, who yesterday rebuffed an army ultimatum to force a resolution to Egypt's political crisis, has made an emotional speech which was aired live to the nation. Morsi, who a year ago was inaugurated as Egypt's first freely elected president, pledged to protect his 'constitutional legitimacy' with his life. Scroll down for video He accused loyalists of his ousted autocratic predecessor Hosni Mubarak of exploiting the wave of protests to topple his regime and thwart democracy.? 'There is no substitute for legitimacy,' said Morsi, who at times angrily raised his voice, thrust his fist in the air and pounded the podium. He warned that electoral and constitutional legitimacy 'is the only guarantee against violence.' Morsi's defiant statement showed that he and his Muslim Brotherhood are prepared to run the risk of challenging the army. It also entrenches the lines of confrontation between his Islamist supporters and Egyptians angry over what they see as his efforts to impose control by his Muslim Brotherhood and his failures to deal with the country's multiple problems.? The crisis has become a struggle over whether a popular uprising can overturn the verdict of the ballot box. Morsi's opponents say he has lost his legitimacy through mistakes and power grabs and that their turnout on the streets over the past three days shows the nation has turned against him. Nationwide protests against Morsi prompted the army to tell feuding politicians they had 48 hours find a resolution with the opposition or it would impose its own road map for the country. Neither side showed any signs of backing down today with Morsi arguing he had not been consulted by the military and would pursue his own plans for national reconciliation. But the Islamist leader looked increasingly isolated with the liberal opposition refusing to talk to him and the armed forces, backed by millions of protesters in the street, giving him until Wednesday to agree to share power. But it also raised worries on both sides that the army could take over outright as it did after the 2011 ousting of autocrat Hosni Mubarak. It has raised the risk of a backlash from Morsi's Islamist backers, including his powerful Muslim Brotherhood and hard-liners, some of whom once belonged to armed militant groups. Pro-Morsi marches numbering in the several thousands began after nightfall on Monday in a string of cities around the country, sparking clashes in some places. An alliance of the Brotherhood and Islamists read a statement at a televised conference calling on people to rally to prevent 'any attempt to overturn' Morsi's election a year ago. A line of around 1,500 men with shields, helmets and sticks - assigned with protecting the rally - stamped their feet in military-like lines, singing, 'stomp our feet, raise a fire. Islam's march is coming'. President Barack Obama said the U.S. is committed to democracy in Egypt, not any particular leader. The military underlined it will 'not be a party in politics or rule'. But it said it has a responsibility to find a solution because Egypt's national security is facing a 'grave danger', according to the statement. It did not detail the road map, but it heavily praised the massive protests that began Sunday demanding that Morsi step down and that early elections be called - suggesting that call had to be satisfied. It said the protests were 'glorious,' adding that the participants expressed their opinion 'in peaceful and civilized manner'. It urged 'the people's demands to be met'. Morsi met with military chief Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi and Prime Minister Hesham Kandil, according to the president's Facebook page, without giving details. Associated Press calls to presidential spokesmen were not answered. In a sign of Morsi's growing isolation, five Cabinet ministers said they have resigned, the state MENA news agency reported. The five were the ministers of communications, legal affairs, environment, tourism and water utilities. The foreign minister also submitted his resignation, government officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to the press. The governor of the strategic province of Ismailia on the Suez Canal, Hassan el-Rifaai, also quit. Ultimatum: Egypt's opposition gave Islamist Mohamed Morsi a day to quit or face civil disobedience after deadly protests demanded the country's first democratically elected president step down after just a year in office Sunday's protests on the first anniversary of Morsi's inauguration were the largest seen in the country in the two years of turmoil since Egyptians first rose up against Mubarak in January 2011. Millions packed Tahrir Square, the streets outside the Ittihadiya presidential palace and main squares in cities around the country. Violence broke out in several parts of the country, often when marchers came under gunfire, apparently from Islamists. In Cairo, anti-Morsi youth attacked the main headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood with stones and fire bombs, while Brotherhood supporters barricaded inside opened fired on them. The clash ended early Monday when the protesters broke into the luxury villa and ransacked it, setting fires. Nationwide, at least 16 people were killed Sunday and more than 780 injured, Health Ministry spokesman Yehya Moussa told state television. Earlier, the group organizing the anti-Morsi protests, Tamarod, Arabic for 'Rebel', issued an ultimatum of its own, giving Morsi until Tuesday afternoon to step down or it would escalate the rallies. Under a framework drawn up by Tamarod, after Morsi steps down, the head of the Supreme Constitutional Court would become an interim president and a technocrat government would be formed. An expert panel would write a new constitution to replace the one largely drafted by Islamists, and a new presidential election would be held in six months. For Islamists, however, the idea of Morsi stepping down is an inconceivable infringement on the repeated elections they won since Mubarak's fall, giving them not only a longtime Brotherhood leader as president but majorities in parliament. Morsi and Brotherhood officials say they are defending democratic legitimacy and some have depicted the protests as led by Mubarak loyalists trying to return to power. But many of his Islamist allies have also depicted it as a fight against Islam. 'The military has sacrificed legitimacy. There will be a civil war,' said Manal Shouib, a 47-year-old physiotherapist at the pro-Morsi rally outside the Rabia al-Adawiya Mosque not far from Ittihadiya. Outside the palace, protesters contended that Morsi could not survive with only the Islamist bloc on his side. 'It is now the whole people versus one group. What can he do?' said Mina Adel, a Christian accountant. 'The army is the savior and the guarantor for the revolution to succeed.'