The crippled Fukushima nuclear power plant is leaking contaminated water into the ocean and the Japanese government has known about the spillage. Tokyo?s admission comes 24 hours after Tepco ? the Tokyo Electric Power Company which operates the plant acknowledged for the first time the problem which has been suspected by experts for a long time. ?The Japanese government is taking this issue seriously. The Minister of Trade, Economy and Industry was instructed to act promptly to prevent contaminated water from leaking into the ocean,? said Yoshihide Suga the government?s chief cabinet secretary. The delayed announcement and belated apology underscored the criticisms the company has faced over the Fukushima crisis. Masayuki Ono a spokesman for Tepco apologised for the leaks. ?High readings of radiation were detected from the ground of the turbine building. We are very sorry for causing concerns for so many people and especially we deeply apologise to the people of Fukushima,? he said. The company has also come under fire for not revealing earlier that the number of workers with thyroid radiation exposures exceeding the threshold levels for cancer risks was 10 times what it had released earlier. Chemical solution is being pumped into the ground which will solidify and help prevent further leaks. 1 The power of the pen: Cartoonists worldwide react to the Charlie Hebdo attack | euronews, world news 2 euronews live TV - News | euronews : the latest international news as video on demand 3 Immigration, racism in sport and the rise of extremism ? Cantona shares his views | euronews, interview 4 [LIVE NOW] Massive unity rally in Paris, with similar marches in other French cities | euronews, world news 5 [LIVE] 12 dead after gun attack at French satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo | euronews, world news 6 [LIVE] Second hostage crisis erupts in Paris as police close in on Charlie Hebdo suspects | euronews, world news 7 Muslim groups fear backlash after terrorist attacks in Paris | euronews, news 8 Medieval Bruges is to get its own underground beer pipeline | euronews, world news 9 Almost four million turn out for unity rallies across France | euronews, world news 11 A defiant Charlie Hebdo: it?s not the front page the terrorists would?ve wanted | euronews, world news 12 France: Angouleme council takes down anti-homeless cages around benches after outcry | euronews, world news 13 HarperCollins wipes Israel off the map | euronews, world news 14 Key questions around the Charlie Hebdo killings go unanswered | euronews, world news 15 NewsWires : euronews : the latest international news as video on demand 16 Grim task of retrieving bodies after wreckage of missing AirAsia plane found | euronews, world news 17 Charlie Hebdo: Israeli paper deletes women from Paris march | euronews, world news 18 Ukraine turns its back on its ?worst year since World War II? | euronews, world news 19 eurovibes - a selection of Europe?s best music talent 20 International tv news | euronews: European and International tv news bulletin