PattieB?I do not dispute what I've read at your insider's reporting. This is my second read and I plan to read it again. The translation is so poor, it is difficult to determine what your guy is actually communicating specifically, in some sentences making it hard to connect the dots. In terms of a smoking gun, it's well accepted among the US and Japanese commissions, departments, agencies, and the military that they permitted TEPCO to disseminate false information, and in turn, those US and Japanese commissions, departments, agencies, and the military went along with TEPCO press releases to cover up the true condition of what happened and was ongoing. Emails and telephone transcripts obtained via FOIA has established that. So, your guy confirms that?pretty much I suspect if one can understand the translation. Not to be rude?other than what we have learned which confirms our same understanding, why is your guy's reporting so significant? One thing we can take away is his confirming that the earthquake caused a criticalities. The plant was in meltdown before the Tsunami hit. Any way to view this doc w/o logging into Google? I'm getting a Google Translator page when I try to open the link. Ah, the inscrutable Patti B at last spills the beans on her sources! Thanks so much PB, I truly am happy to at last know there was a reason for your caution in disclosing your source. I figured as much the person disclosing the data might be in danger . You are well connected in your field, and this makes sense. What's your read on the Veterans Today article posted awhile back where it was disclosed Fuku-Dai is releasing 80 Trillion Bq per hour, day, or something like that? It was the article where someone had extrapolated releases based on the information Robert Alvarez had given. That was related to what #3 might have been releasing after its detonation explosion, whatever it was , and when Alvarez had discussed the potential ramifications of a possible collapse of the Unit #4 spent fuel pool. Let's see if I can find the link. I found the numbers pretty horrifying. Well, it is what it is. And here we are, all in the same boat, floating about in the ether, together on planet earth. Will they ever learn? We share a common fate, we humans, and all life here. San Francisco ? The world?s second big nuclear disaster occurred at Chernobyl Reactor No. 4 in the Ukraine on Apr 26, 1986. Simply tagged as ?Chernobyl,? it is what the next big and well known nuke disaster, after the American Three Mile Island, on March 28, 1979 came to be called. ?Chernobyl? ejected 30% of one 192-ton, three-month old reactor core. That?s 57.6 radioactive tons thrown into the air by fire and explosions. Bob Nichols' articles are well foot noted with full citations, which is nice. He is very thorough, IMO.