TOKYO ? ?Attack of the mutant vegetables!! Are these our new tomato overlords?? Let?s all boycott the struggling Fukushima farmers for, oh, say 100 years or so.? Actually, despite the attention they?re receiving and hits they?re no doubt generating online, the photo at left and others like it don?t seem to originate from Fukushima at all. The scary veggie pics went viral on the Internet. This is the kind of story that keeps showing up again in different incarnations. It?s just too good a story ? I mean, who doesn?t want to see freakish vegetables? People love freakish vegetable pics.? So, where and when were these photos taken? I tracked down this tomato to find out. For starters, tomato experts tell me that scary-looking tomato is probably a ?reisetomate?, a rare breed of tomato which looks like a lot of tomatoes fused together in a distorted, weird way. Big tomatoes are also prone to a disorder called ?catfacing?, caused by cool or cloudy weather at blooming time which makes the blossoms stick together. Freakish tomatoes happen all the time?but because most of us get our tomatoes from the supermarket rather than growing them ourselves, we tend to see only the shapely ones. The tomato image first appeared on Japanese website TV Asahi, featured along with other funny photos of babies and cats submitted by viewers as a ?Deluxe Tomato?. If that was a tomato from Fukushima, I highly doubt that any Fukushima residents would be sending it in as a joke, chuckling as they effectively tell the entire nation, ?Look everyone, our produce is totally not safe!? In fact, it seems that this tomato may have come from Saitama, hundreds of kilometers south of Fukushima. However, a bunch of questionable websites are trading on this image. One Romanian site claims that this picture was tweeted by @masason, CEO of SoftBank try as I might, I can?t find this tweet . The same website goes on to ask for donations, to be sent to a bank account in Romania. Also, ?monthly donation is very helpful?? Another website not to name any names has some extra information and political commentary on the tomato: ?Lori Mochizuki, who edits Fukushima-Diary.com, reports that capitalists in Japan are now selling clearly discernible radiation contaminated and genetically mutated tomatoes. Mr Mochizuki reports that such mutated plants are being increasingly found all over Japan, as the capitalist try to draw our attention elsewhere.? ?Capitalists in Japan have apparently become so bold that they now seek to make money from tomatoes not fit to be eaten by human or animal alike, as their achon confederates in America and elsewhere seek to cover up their negligent response to the on-going and worsening Fukushima crisis.? A few lonely voices of reason tried to debunk these images, but they were far outnumbered by the hysterical reaction of most of the internet. Well, most folks are irrationally scared of radiation. Sure, it?s scary. Still, can we be rational about this? We have devices for measuring it. The vegetables and rice produced in Fukushima are tested for radiation and meet even higher standards than the rest of Japan. But for fear of the name ?Fukushima?, people won?t buy these perfect and radiation-free vegetables, even when they were grown over 100km away from Fukushima Daiichi did you know that Fukushima is actually Japan?s third-largest prefecture? It?s a big place! . Hard-working farmers suffer the consequences of these harmful rumours far more than they should. As I write this article, a correction has been made to the English-language article that hosted the images ? apparently ?these images aren?t related to the Fukushima disaster?. But in the meantime, Fukushima has taken another senseless knock to its economy. Read more stories from RocketNews24. ?Tomato Juice Fad Dead at 6 months ?Who Makes the Better McDonald?s Burger; France or Japan? ?Blogger?s Troubling Insight into Psyche of Post-Disaster Fukushima Residents Well, most folks are irrationally scared of radiation. Sure, it's scary. Still, can we be rational about this? We have devices for measuring it. The vegetables and rice produced in Fukushima are tested for radiation and meet even higher standards than the rest of Japan. But for fear of the name Fukushima , people won't buy these perfect and radiation-free vegetables, even when they were grown over 100km away from Fukushima Daiichi did you know that Fukushima is actually Japan's third-largest prefecture? It's a big place! . Hard-working farmers suffer the consequences of these harmful rumours far more than they should. nothing about afraid or panic, the fallout from the 3 explosions went all over Tokyo, and as evident radioactivity did increase although not beyond safe levels yet , it is very logical to assume that there are pockets of high radiation all over the north as noted and reluctantly admitted already by Tepco... not really sure what's the point of this story. Since most measured data indicate extremely high radioactivity around the plant and in groundwater probably China Syndrome in full blow there is absolutely no reason to trust the produce from that surrounding area. Btw, the radioactivity tests are voluntary , farmers keep trying to sell their damaged produce by mislabelling it normal practice in Japan - even big firms were caught red-handed ,in all honesty the area should be closed as Chernobyl and farmers compensated and forcibly removed and forbidden to produce anything under criminal consequence. It's always this way. This isn't a nuclear issue, it's just what humans do. There is a standard level of funny-business in any sector or business. Look at China. Look at US meat industry and big agra and big pharma, the self-reporting, self-regulating and revolving-door compliance. Remember mad cow testing and mislabeling, remember the scandal about HIV testing on donated blood. Or how about finance/banking sector, where once again the stakeholders are in charge of their own compliance and reporting and the players get a free pass? Baseball and soccer and sumo matches fixed? Illegal political contributions? Heda_Madness it is your lack of understanding I am totally amazed at, btw I grew up near Chernobyl and know very very well what has happened there and how exactly it was contained, go read some before you talk. The most important points are : 1.Chernobyl initially released large radioactive plume, and explosion. The government put all their efforts in containing it at expense of workers and military, made sure nothing more is released beyond the initial, prosecuted everyone related as a deterrent and restricted access to a huge area. 2.Fukushima , it is unknown how much radiation was released in the plume following 2 explosions, they have reported that they keep finding highly radioactive debris in surrounding area, only 2 explosions are reported and 1 left out totally. The radiation is released constantly since the disaster with no to minimal containment and all those reactors have restarted criticality thats why boric acid is poured , in water and pressure releases - groundwater in the area is contaminated by the admission as well as sea . Access not restricted and there is minimal food control. Most radioactive measurements or statistics are being actively falsified or not reported until they no longer keep it under wraps. So yes, Fukushima is on a much larger scale.... You can easily get deformed vegetables by just not having the right kind or not enough nutrients in the soil, or even growing them too close together as well as too much irrigation at the wrong time, it has nothing to do with radiation. Actually, we are exposed to small amounts of radiation every day from radon gas which varies according to the place, and from cosmic rays over which we have no control over, and it is found in trace amounts in everything we eat or drink. We are also exposed to relatively higher amounts of radiation when we get an X-Ray, a CT scan or a mammogram. It the 1950's people wore wrist watches with luminous dials, which were slightly radioactive, and shoe stores routinely x-rayed people's feet when they were fitted for shoes. Just like anything else there is a safe level for radiation. There is no more radiation in tobacco than any other plant; that is just a scare story in the ongoing anti-smoking campaign. Trace amounts of radiation are found in everything, and those trace amounts are negligible. But depending on what you are ingesting, those amounts can build up. Let me just assure you that there are many things spewing out of Fukushima that are not found in nature and have not been for hundreds of millions of years. Our bodies have not evolved in a way to deal with them for that reason. The effects of Strontium 90, cobolt 60, iodine 131 and others is not pretty, and there are no safe amounts for internal purposes. All your statements about external radiation sources don't mean anything when you skip right over the materials themselves and their location with regard to the human body and the exposure times. Internal constant exposure from a radioactive material which has lodged in your thyroid gland is a completely different ball game to a split second x-ray. Any kind of radiation can build up, radiation lives on for thousands of years, which means that it stays with you forever. The amounts we are exposed to are extremely small, when they say trace amounts that means they can just detect a trace of it, a very small amount. A trace amount won't hurt anybody, if it did human life would have been extinct when they conducted all the nuclear bomb tests in the 1950's and 1960's, Best to limit the exposure to radiation as much as possible whether it is x-rays or CT scans small amounts of radiation are also used in treating cancer . But the food from Fukashima is constantly tested and nobody is likely to be harmed by eating it if it deemed safe Nothing scares people nowadays as much as perceived threats from radiation, it is the new bogeyman. And the media just loves doom-and-gloom scare stories, disaster stories doomsday stories. There is a certain type of person who just eats that sort of stuff up and loves to believe those stories. Facts, logic, reason and common sense goes out the window wherever radiation is concerned. There are no facts or statistics in these type of stories. Even though this particular article states that the pictures do not come from Fukashima at all and have no relation to any nuclear disaster people automatically believe that it does, because that is what they want to believe.