Why TEPCO?s admission of the steam leak at unit 3 is merely a dodge of the bigger problem. TEPCO?s off the cuff remark that rainwater might be the cause of the steam leak seemed to send the press running without any investigation of the validity of this as a possible cause. TEPCO also succeeded in distracting the press from the bigger problem, absolutely no public disclosure of the debris removal and condition of unit 3 as that work progressed. A considerable amount of visual information is contained in the progress of debris removal and the condition of the debris layers along with what can be understood from the now visible refueling floor and reactor related structures. TEPCO shares none of this with the public. TEPCO likely has this information for their own use and has in other cases documented in great detail the condition of equipment at the plant. Earlier they released over 1000 photos of the power distribution systems and other non-critical images at the plant. TEPCO would obviously do the same level of detail on the reactor buildings and has done so with unit 4 where possible. TEPCO?s rainwater excuse continues to defy logic and what is known of unit 3. This simple explanation below shows the temperatures needed to create steam. A heat source of over 100c or 212f is needed to create steam. The yellow containment cap would need to be far hotter than the rest of the reactor and containment to turn dripping rainwater into steam. The temperature readings given by TEPCO for the reactor vessel and containment are all below 100c. So either the temperature sensors are all wrong and they are over cold shutdown, or the steam from rainwater claim is impossible. Some heat or combustion source exists somewhere to create the steam or white smoke that was seen. It being heated rainwater is highly unlikely and if it was, it would be an indicator of something far more drastic going on to cause it. Some other documentation of the conditions around the tool pit where the leak was found: Damage to the building appears to impact the tool pit area of the refueling floor. The location of the tool pit is also the point where the building falls away. View of the reactor well, containment cap and open tool pit gate removed as seen at unit 5 before the disaster. Unit 5 is a similar design to unit 3. Notice the shiny steel walls of the tool pit. Unit 3 today. The tool pit gate and walls are heavily discolored and damaged. The damage to the overhead crane seen to the right is also a question. It doesn?t appear in early 2011 photos. So it is either later damage or possibly cutting for removal. TEPCO should explain this. As they have given no information about the work on unit 3 since they covered the spent fuel pool, both the press and the public are left wondering. The NRA must compel TEPCO to disclose all data and evidence about the reactors and the disaster itself. Under NISA, the predecessor agency, TEPCO had been subjected to heightened reporting due to previous incidents where they lied to regulators about problems with the reactors at Daiichi. Since the disaster TEPCO has been reporting only a portion of the information and work done as has been seen many times where they later disclose something done previously when forced to do so. The disaster has so many widespread implications for people in the area, the environment, technical understanding for other reactors along with legal and poltical impacts. The very company that caused this massive disaster should not be allowed to continue to hide information and evidence in their possession.