Two days after his arrival into the world the new prince's name was officially announced. It's a big name for a little baby, even if his 8lbs 6oz birthweight left dad Prince William saying he was pretty heavy . The names chosen by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are all traditional ones and were short odds with the bookies . So it is Prince George Alexander Louis who is getting used to life in the world, and his parents used to life with him, at his grandparents' home in Bucklebury, Berks . The Duke and Duchess are understood to have had a few ideas for names in mind and waited to confirm which one was right for their son, possibly conferring with their family when they visited. But it was William and Kate's decision what to call their firstborn and all three names picked were chosen because they liked them. So after their two day deliberation, and visits from both sets of grandparents, the queen and Prince Harry , why did they settle on those three names? George shares a name with his great-great-grandfather King George VI , the Queen's father. He took George as his regnal name when he became king after his brother's abdication, but his full name was Albert Frederick Arthur George and he was known as Bertie to his family. George VI chose George in honour of his father George V and to create the impression of stability after the scandal caused by his brother Edward VIII giving up the throne for American divorcee Wallis Simpson. The name has come to stand for the continuity of the monarchy . The name George originates from the Greek for earth-worker or farmer , and dragon-slaying St George is the patron saint of England .? George was the 12th most popular name for boys born in England and Wales in 2011 - expect it to climb up the charts as royal fans copy William and Kate's choice. Six King Georges have worn the crown starting with the German-born George I, the first Hanoverian king of Great Britain, who acceded to the throne in 1714. George is also the fourth name of the Prince of Wales - the baby's grandfather. Even Edward VIII had George among his seven names. There has only been one other Prince of Cambridge and he was also called George, although he is not such a good advert for the name. The first Prince George of Cambridge was a grandson of George III and the only son of Prince Adolphus Frederick, the 1st Duke of Cambridge. Prince George of Cambridge was born in 1819. He refused an arranged marriage, instead falling in love with an marrying actress Sarah Louisa Fairbrother, who was said to be a classic beauty and a graceful dancer. They married in 1847 when she was already the mother of two of his children and pregnant with his third. But the Duke did not seek the sovereign's approval and the marriage was never recognised , hence his children were not eligible to inherit royal titles. Miss Fairbrother, who generated much scandal including having a portrait painted in which she showed off her bare legs, was ostracised by the royal family and never given a title. Instead, she became known by the nickname Mrs FitzGeorge and this surname was taken by George's offspring. Despite his marriage, George had a wandering eye and soon after he wed he took up with mistress Louisa Beauclerk, who remained his lover for more than 30 years. He went on to become the 2nd Duke of Cambridge after his father's death. The Duke was in the Army and served in the Crimean War. He was promoted to Commander-in-Chief in 1887 and an equestrian statue of him stands in the middle of London's Whitehall. He was said to have been a disciplinarian, who believed Army promotions should be based on social connections rather than ability. He died in 1904. There has never been an English king called Alexander but three medieval Scottish kings ruled as Alexander.??????????? Alexander I reigned from 1107 to 1124, Alexander II from 1214 to 1249 and Alexander III followed him from 1249 to 1286. Alexander derives from the Greek word meaning protector of men, with Alexander the Great one of its most famous exponents. Female variations of Alexander have been more common in the royal family, with Queen Victoria's full name Alexandrina Victoria, and Alexandra also in use. It is thought Alexander was a name favoured by Kate. It is likely to be a tribute to Lord Louis Mountbatten , the Duke of Edinburgh's uncle and the last British Viceroy of India before independence in 1947. Mountbatten and William's father the Prince of Wales were very close, with Charles confiding in his relative. He was known by the Royal Family as Uncle Dickie and was assassinated by the IRA in August 1979, three years before William was born. His boat was blown up on a fishing trip off the coast of County Sligo, Republic of Ireland. Louis is one of William's middle names . Louis is the French and English form of the German name Ludwig, which means famous warrior or famous in battle.??????????? Royals don't tend to use their surnames much - Prince William is known as Captain Wales in the army for example. His father Charles is the Prince of Wales so William grew up as Prince William of Wales in the same way his son his Prince George of Cambridge. But if little George does need a surname most likely for marriage he will be styled Mountbatten-Windsor. Prince George is likely to become Prince of Wales one day. It is a title traditionally conferred on the heir to the throne, although it is not automatic. Prince William is likely to become Prince of Wales after his father Charles becomes king before he passes the title to his own son when he is sovereign. Out Now! Order your copy of the Daily Mirror's glossy?Royal Baby?souvenir magazine - only ?3 RRP ?4.99