His Royal Highness officially has a name ? 3 to be exact! Prince William and Kate Middleton welcomed their first child on July 22, and now we know his long-awaited name! Prince William, 31, and Kate Middleton, 31, are now finally proud parents to a baby boy! And while we got the good news of the baby?s birth on July 22 at 4:24 p.m.local time ? and got to see the little guy just the next day ? it took two days?until we found out his name. After much speculation of the baby?s potential name, we were thrilled to hear what the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge officially picked out ? Prince George Alexander Louis. The royal baby?s official title is His Royal Highness George Alexander Louis?Prince of Cambridge, but he will commonly be known as Prince George. George was was the name of Queen Elizabeth?s father, who died when she was just 26 years old. So the royal baby is named after his great-great-grandfather ? how sweet! While the world waited with bated breath ? and some bets were even placed around the world on the name ? we think that Will and Kate did a great job picking a classic?moniker for the new royal baby! The royal parents gave birth to the baby boy on July 22, but debuted their little prince on the steps of St. Mary?s Hospital in London just the next day! The proud parents were beaming, and donned matching baby blue outfits to present their baby boy. Kate and William even answered questions from the press about their bundle of joy, and the Duke of Cambridge gushed over how handsome his baby boy is. He said: While?the honor of being heir to the throne was traditionally only bestowed upon men, a declaration signed by Queen Elizabeth on December 31?changed the way women are treated in the monarchy. However, since the couple welcomed a boy, he will be the next heir to the throne regardless ? the baby is third in the line of succession after grandpa?Prince Charles and dad Prince William. This is the first time the monarchy has had three heirs to the throne since 1894. What do you think about the baby?s name,?HollywoodLifers?