?I could have been Trayvon Martin,? said Whitney Clark, 22, a lifelong Chicagoan and graduate of Southern Illinois University. In response to Saturday?s news of George Zimmerman?s acquittal of all charges in the Florida shooting death of unarmed African American teen Trayvon Martin, Clark organized a Monday night rally and march on Chicago?s South Side. Chanting ?Stop the Violence?, a 20-person demonstration quickly escalated and turned into a march of more than 200 people as outrage and disappointment in the judicial system drew protesters to the streets of Washington Park. ?We are here because of injustice, because of unfair treatment, because of a devaluing of life,? said Clark, who addressed participants of Monday?s protest with tears in her eyes. ?Trayvon Martin, and so many others, are dying without justice being served on their behalf. The verdict of the Zimmerman case screams injustice.? Zimmerman, 29, a half white, half Hispanic neighborhood watch volunteer, faced charges of second-degree murder and manslaughter for the killing of 17 year-old Martin. The two were involved in a violent scuffle following Zimmerman?s report of a suspicious person to the police in February 2012. Despite instructions that Zimmerman not approach Martin, the incident resulted in the self-appointed watchman fatally shooting the teenager in the chest after he followed Martin, who was walking home from the store. This guy looks like he's up to no good, or he's on drugs or something,? Zimmerman told the Sanford Police Department in his first call to the police on the day of the altercation. According to a police report following the incident, there was no indication that Trayvon Martin was involved in any criminal activity at the time of the encounter.? Zimmerman?s defense team argued he acted in self-defense, saying Martin ?viciously attacked? him. But prosecutors alleged Zimmerman, who was treated for head wounds the evening of the confrontation, racially profiled Martin. The teenager was carrying nothing but Skittles and a bottle of iced tea at the time. The incident has sparked a national debate on racism in America. Zimmerman?s exoneration by the jury of six females, all but one of which were white, has incited nationwide demonstrations from protesters who claim ?justice was not served.? ?Racism is still alive and well in America, but people try to cover it up,? Clark, a resident of Hyde Park, told Progress Illinois. ?We need to acknowledge it in order to change it. We can?t complain about something that we?re not willing to change.? Clark addressed demonstrators outside of her alma mater, King College Prep High School, at 4445 South Drexel Blvd., a school that was also attended by Hadiya Pendleton, the 15 year-old Chicago honor student who was shot and killed in January. Pendleton?s homicide, one of more than 200 so far in 2013, pushed the city?s gun violence into the national spotlight and was mentioned by President Barack Obama in his State of the Union address. Clark said the senseless killing of African American youth ?should not be the norm.? She called on attendees to pledge to stand up against violence and ?prevent death from entering our homes.? ?I can no longer witness these circumstances and be quiet about it,? she said. Ald. Pat Dowell 3rd , who was at Monday night's protest, said the U.S. needs a new civil rights movement to reassert African Americans? liberties. ?That verdict delivered a message to all black people that our lives are not worth a damn,? she said. Dowell, who added that she remembers when her 27 year-old son was ?just a kid at 17?, said she is ?hopeful? the U.S. Department of Justice DOJ will file a federal civil rights suit against Zimmerman. The DOJ vowed Sunday it would reopen its investigation into the case to determine whether civil rights laws had been violated. On Monday, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder called Martin?s shooting ?unnecessary.? ?Our community doesn?t speak out enough and for us to be out here protesting and saying we want better treatment, it?s just awesome,? said Stephanie Moore, 20, a lifelong resident of Chicago?s South Shore neighborhood and a junior at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Moore, who helped Clark organize Monday?s demonstration, marched with protesters and chanted ?I?ve got Skittles and iced tea, please don?t shoot me!? She said racism is still prevalent in the U.S.: Meanwhile, former State Sen. Alice Palmer, who spoke at Monday?s rally, said that if the law is always right, she should be a slave today. ?This is a time to think,? she said. ?Think about what it is we can do with our brains ? not with our fists, not with foolishness. Think about the history that brought us this far.? Arika Linton, 22, founder of the anti-violence campaign, Don?t Kill My Chance, agreed with Palmer that outraged citizens should avoid violence in the wake of the Zimmerman verdict. ?This is the time that we must band together in unity, and fight with our minds against justice, hatred and racism,? she said.