Egypt?s budget and balance of payments have reached a state of crisis in the 2 1/2 years of political and economic turmoil since veteran leader?Hosni Mubarak?was toppled in a popular uprising in 2011. Qatar?has lent Egypt more than $7 billion since Mursi was elected president a year ago, but other Gulf countries have remained aloof. Cairo?s benchmark retreated 0.4 percent Sunday to 5,312 points from a one-month high as the index faced chart-resistance and investors booked gains from a recent rally. The market rose to 5,413 points intraday, near the June peak. Local investors, who were buyers in the recent rally, joined foreigners as net sellers Sunday, according to exchange data. ?Indications are directed at a certain name, but talks are still ongoing,? said Ahmed el-Moslemany, a spokesman for interim President Adly Mansour, speaking to reporters in Cairo late Saturday. The uncharacteristic back-and-forth from the usually authoritative state media suggested that ElBaradei ? a divisive figure within Egypt who is seen as a staunch secularist by groups who want a greater role for religion in politics ? may have proved too controversial a pick as prime minister. A top aide to ElBaradei had also portrayed the appointment as a done deal on Saturday. But as reports of ElBaradei?s selection filtered out, leaders of the ultraconservative Salafist Nour Party threatened to withdraw from the broad coalition of groups backing a path toward elections. ?The nomination of ElBaradei violates the roadmap that the political and national powers had agreed on with General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi,? the Nour Party?s deputy leader, Ahmed Khalil, told the state-run al-Ahram newspaper. Many Islamists view ElBaradei as a leader who is decidedly uninterested in giving them a say in Egypt?s affairs. ?Baradei in a way is kind of the ultimate liberal,? said Shadi Hamid, an Egypt expert at the Brookings Doha Center. ?He has a very antagonistic relationship with the Muslim Brotherhood, which is why it doesn?t bode well for Brotherhood reintegration? if he were to come to power. Just as the democratically elected Morsi experienced a remarkable fall from grace this week, ElBaradei?s unelected rise to the position of prime minister would have marked a remarkable turnaround for a politician who has struggled to find popular support outside Egypt?s urban, educated classes, in a country where roughly half the population lives on less than $2 a day. Before the decision to award ElBaradei the office was apparently reversed, state television broadcast images of him meeting with Mansour at the presidential palace. It was the first time Mansour had worked from the presidential palace since he took power on Thursday, hours after Wednesday evening?s coup. Mansour also met with representatives from the Nour Party and from the Tamarod protest group that organized the protests last weekend that brought millions out onto the streets of Egypt against Morsi?s rule. Even before Egypt?s 2011 revolution, ElBaradei ? the 2005 winner of the Nobel Peace Prize ? had been a harsh critic of former president Hosni Mubarak, who had led the country for three decades. But his long career outside Egypt, first as a diplomat with Egypt?s Foreign Ministry and then at the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, led critics in Egypt to say he was more recognizable abroad than at home. He was director general of the nuclear watchdog from 1997 until 2009. Upon returning to Egypt, he spoke out against Mubarak, working with others ? including the then-banned Muslim Brotherhood ? to campaign against the leader. Although he said he wanted a role for members of the Muslim Brotherhood as well as ultraconservative Salafist Muslim political groups, he has also defended the shutdown of Islamist television networks that has deprived Morsi supporters a platform to broadcast their views domestically in the days since the coup. More than a dozen top Muslim Brotherhood officials, and a lawyer who represents the group, remained in detention on Saturday, said Heba Morayef, an Egypt researcher for Human Rights Watch. With Morsi supporters holding firm to their demands for his return to the presidency, the discussions over new political leadership Saturday took place as clashes continued around the country. Near Cairo University, a site of conflict between Morsi supporters and security forces in recent days, an encamped group of Morsi backers were reinforcing barricades and preparing for more conflict. At least one man in the crowd fired a gun into the air. ?Everything since Sisi announced the detention of Morsi and the suspension of the constitution has been illegal,? said Medhat Ahmed, a lawyer who had at his feet a plastic bag filled with rocks. ?The appointment of this prime minister is illegal and illegitimate in our eyes.? In the early hours of Saturday morning, Morsi?s Islamist supporters fought brutal street battles with the ousted president?s opponents. The violence left at least 30 people dead and more than 1,000 injured across the country, according to Egypt?s Health Ministry. Also Saturday, a Coptic Christian priest was shot dead in broad daylight in Egypt?s restive Sinai Peninsula, a local police commander said. Attackers on motorbikes shot the priest, Mena Aboud, in his car in al-Arish, near the border with the Gaza Strip, the commander said. But it was not immediately clear whether the killing was connected with Morsi?s ouster. Egypt veered sharply toward the looming specter of civil war on Friday, as the leadership of the Muslim Brotherhood continued to call for resistance to the overthrow of Muhammad Morsi, who had been the elected head of state before the army deposed him on Wednesday. On Thursday, the military had arrested the Supreme Guide of the Muslim Brotherhood, Muhammad Badie, at Marsa Matrouh and brought him by helicopter to Cairo. Apparently they were attempting to intimidate him into accepting Morsi?s overthrow and wanted him to call on his followers to go home and prepare for the upcoming elections. The officers released Badie Friday morning and allowed him to address the enormous crowd of Morsi supporters at the Rabia al-Adawiya Mosque. If Badie did make any agreement with the military, he reneged on it when he mounted the dais. He called for the Muslim Brotherhood to go into resistance and to attempt to restore Morsi to power, saying people should stay in the streets and refuse to be shooed away. As a result of Badie?s fiery and defiant speech, Muslim Brothers tried to invade the grounds of the Revolutionary Guards barracks where they thought Morsi was being held; local troops warned them off, but when they kept coming, they opened fire and killed three. Hundreds of thousands of pro-Morsi demonstrators remained in the square in front of the Rabi`a al-`Adawiya Mosque. Other Muslim Brothers crossed 6th of October Bridge in Cairo and most went to the state television station at Maspero, where they demonstrated, then ultimately dispersed. A group of Muslim Brothers, when they got across the bridge, headed straight for Tahrir Square, allegedly attacking the anti-Morsi youth there. Some fundamentalists deployed firearms. The other youth responded with rock-throwing and then began shooting fireworks at the Brotherhood attackers. The soccer fanatics and other Tahrir militants pushed the Brotherhood back across the bridge. Ultimately the army closed the bridge, but many hours after it should have. Some 12 of the 30 dead on Friday died in clashes in Alexandria, the country?s second-largest city, in the biggest demonstrations for two years. The Brotherhood maintained that they were fired on when they demonstrated in favor of Morsi there, and that the police took the side of the attackers, deploying tear gas against the right wing crowd. In the Delta depot town of Damanhour, 25 were wounded in fighting between pro-Morsi and anti-Morsi factions. In the Suez canal port of Ismailia, Morsi supporters attempted to storm the offices of the governor, but withdrew when troops began firing over their heads. I heard one report on Friday of 100 wounded in Ismailiya. In Luxor, Egyptian troops and police used tear gas to stop pro-Morsi fundamentalists from invading the Coptic Bishopric. In Tanta, a march in support of Morsi was launched from Salam Mosque and there was a demonstration at the town center. In Bani Suef, pro-Morsi demonstrators tried to take over the barracks of the military police, while anti-Morsi forces staged a counter-rally. Five Egyptian troops were killed in separate incidents?in Egypt?s Sinai Peninsula. The city of El Arish is in open rebellion, and Alarabiya reported that rebels were flying the black al-Qaeda flag there. At least 30 people were killed and more than 1,000 wounded in?the violence that erupted on Friday?and continued through the night. A coalition of conservative groups led by Muslim Brotherhood has vowed further demonstrations on Saturday, raising fears of renewed violence.The coalition is demanding the restoration of Morsi as president. He was deposed?three days ago in a military coup. Battle lines remain drawn as anti-Morsi protesters spent the night in Cairo's Tahrir Square, with checkpoints manned by civilians. Pro-Morsi supporters have also vowed to come on to the streets to press their demand. The masses will continue their civilised protests and peaceful sit-ins in Cairo until the military coup is reversed and the legitimate president is restored, the Brotherhood-led coalition said in an early morning statement on Saturday. Meanwhile, a deputy leader of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood, former presidential candidate Khairat El-Shater, has been arrested. Security sources said on Saturday that Shater, a wealthy businessman seen as the movement's main political strategist, was taken into custody on suspicion of incitement to violence. Mohamed Badie, the top leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, gave a defiant speech on Friday to a crowd of Morsi supporters and vowed to protect Morsi's presidency. God make Morsi victorious and bring him back to the palace, he said in the speech, which was partially aired on state TV. We are his soldiers, we defend him with our lives. A new Islamist group also announced its formation in Egypt, calling the army's ousting of Morsi a declaration of war on its faith and threatening to use violence to impose Islamic law. Ansar al-Shariah in Egypt said it would gather arms and start training its members, in a statement posted on an online forum for fighters in the country's Sinai region on Friday. Friday's clashes were triggered by the death of three Morsi supporters - reportedly killed by gunfire as they tried to march towards the military barracks where Morsi is believed to be held. We are not taking sides. Our mission is to secure the lives of protesters, military spokesman Colonel Ahmed Ali told AFP news agency. Meanwhile, the US condemned the fighting and urged all sides, including the army, to stop the violence. We condemn the violence that has taken place today in Egypt. We call on all Egyptian leaders to condemn the use of force and to prevent further violence among their supporters, State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in a statement. There is no place for retribution or for the exclusion of any major party or community, Ban reportedly said. After nightfall on Friday, a crowd of Morsi supporters marched from Nasr City, a district of Cairo, towards the Maspero state TV building and clashed with anti-Morsi protesters on the 6th October Bridge, which is located?over the Nile River. One man was seen apparently firing a gun, while gunshots could he heard in the area. People were seen throwing rocks as the two sides advanced and retreated in turn on the bridge near Tahrir Square. Four protesters were killed outside the Republican Guard headquarters after breaking away from a pro-Morsi demonstration, the official MENA news agency reported. Rioting was also reported in Al Manial district, an island in the Nile River, between Cairo and Giza, according to state TV. Five policemen had been killed in the northern Sinai town of El-Arish, after a soldier was also killed in the region.