Gbenga Omotoso Lawal Ogienagbon Dapo Fafowora Jide Osuntokun Jide Oluwajuyitan Gbogun gboro Ade Ojeikere Yomi Odunuga Dayo Sobowale Victor Akande Tatalo Alamu Idowu Akinlotan Festus Eriye Biodun Jeyifo Ropo Sekoni Femi Orebe Tunji Adegboyega The world yesterday condemned Wednesday?s ousting of Egypt?s first democratically-elected President after a week of protests. President Goodluck Jonathan joined the United Nations, Unied States President Barack Obama and British Prime Minister David Cameron and other world leaders, to demand the reversal of the military coup that removed Mohammed Morsi. Mr Adly Mahmud Mansour was yesterday sworn in as interim head of state. He vowed to ?preserve the system of the republic, and respect the constitution and law, and guard the people?s interests?. Deposed President Morsi was being detained at a military facility. Warrants of arrest have been issued for more than 300 members of his Muslim Brotherhood party. United Nations Secretary General Ban ki Moon urged ?speedy resumption of civilian rule.? President Jonathan?s demand for immediate restoration of democratic order was made through a statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Abuja. The statement said: ?The Federal Government of Nigeria has received with grave concern, news of the overthrow by the Armed Forces, of the democratically elected President of Egypt, Mr. Mohammed Morsi and the suspension of the country?s constitution. ?This is a truncation of the aspiration of the Egyptian people to freely express themselves through the ballot box ?This unfortunate development is a gross violation of the Construction Act of the African Union, which prohibits unconstitutional change of government. ?It constitutes a serious setback of the remarkable progress which Africa has made in fostering the culture of democratic governance in the continent. ?Nigeria calls for the immediate restoration of the democratic order in Egypt and urges the Egyptian Armed Forces to allow the democratic culture to thrive in the country. ?Nigeria also calls on the Egyptian people to exercise utmost restraint in the peaceful pursuit of their legitimate grievances.? President Barack Obama said: ?We believe that ultimately the future of Egypt can only be determined by the Egyptian people. Nevertheless, we are deeply concerned by the decision of the Egyptian armed forces to remove President Morsi and suspend the Egyptian constitution. ?I now call on the Egyptian military to move quickly and responsibly to return full authority back to a democratically elected civilian government as soon as possible through an inclusive and transparent process, and to avoid any arbitrary arrests of President Morsi and his supporters.? British Prime Minister David Cameron?s spokesman said: ?We don?t support military interventions as a way to resolve disputes. We always condemn military intervention in democratic systems. What we want and what we support is a democratic future for Egypt.? Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu,said: ?Only can you be removed from duty through elections, that is, the will of the people. It is unacceptable for a government, which has come to power through democratic elections, to be toppled through illicit means and even more, a military coup.? German Guido Westerwelle, the foreign minister: ?This is a major setback for democracy in Egypt. It is urgent that Egypt return as quickly as possible to the constitutional order. There is a real danger that the democratic transition in Egypt will be seriously damaged.? But Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying,said ?China respects the choice of the Egyptian people. We also hope that all parties concerned in Egypt can avoid using violence and properly solve their disputes through dialogue and consultation and realise reconciliation and social stability.? Mansour said he would safeguard ?the spirit of the revolution? which removed Hosni Mubarak from power in 2011, and would ?put an end to the idea of worshipping the leader?. We cannot continue to breed evil on the altar of democratic-aspiration.Governance is governance;a good governance is one that carries the people along with it and seeks to do the greatest good to the greatest majority, democracy can not be any less;seeing that it is a government by the people.Democracy does not guaranty the perpetuation of evil,but a right of the people to dispense with any leadership that fails to work for them through the impeachment,electoral and judicial processes.What happens when these processes are corrupted to inertia is what we see in the streets of Egypt today as captured by one of the world?s revered thinkers:Those who make peaceful change impossible,make violent change inevitable.Morsi became a demi-god barely a week after ascending his high office,and look what has happened.Let the Guinea-fowl take hint of what is happening to the fowl. A word!! In the light of Truth, Morsi, the President of Egypt is the cause of the military take over. A leader ought to be a leader of a nation and not for a particular religion like Islam. It seems that the whole problem in the world and mostly in Africa is cause by Islamic leaders who sees themselves as the only people on earth. Any leaders who do not seek a balance among it?s people whether muslim or Christian is not fit to be called a democratic government at all. The world should tell themselves the Truth about what democracy is, and not one person of a religion wants to kill others and change all the laws in his way of religion because he is the leader. The UN and US should take a study or research around the troubled spots in the world and in Africa and find out which religion? Islam or Christian that are responsible for the worlds conflicts. Thereafter, come out with the Truth and find a way of addressing the issue. A case of Nigeria, is a case at hand like boko haram and what they are causing in Nigeria. GEJ is not the problem in Nigeria, hence the military can not wake up to take over the government of the country. The fact the Truth is heavy and only few men carries it; should not stop really men to stop addressing Issues in the light of Truth. UN and US should come out with Truth. The hypocritical outburst and condem-nation by the world leaders against Patriotic Egyptians, their apolitical,none- ethnicity or Regious driven intervention by the Armed forces to prevent to Egxpt frm becoming a failed State as result of Group of Religious bigots intent to forcefully turn a multi relious Nation to Secular Islamic Brotherhood State, wtin barely a year of assumption of office by an Authoritarian Despot,ex-President Mohammed Morsi. The European & African Countries,should instead of the un-nece ssary half spirited condemnations,espec-ially the West that super headed the murder of late President Muamar Gadaffi of Libya the over threw of ex-President Mubarak of Egyptian which led to insllation of the West pupet, who under one year committed unpresidented human rights abuses,un heard off throught the long tenure of ex- President Mubarak in Egypt. The lesson to be learnt by all,espec-ially the Despotic African leaders who has the illussionary assumption that the ERA of Millitary interventions in Africa is over,FA FA FOWL!!! The only anti-dote to Millitary incursion into Governance,shall be by the resolve of the African leaders to observe rules of law, adherance to Democratic principles in Governnance,shun acts of impunity, intimidation above all, conduct free & fair elections and accept the outcome of such Democratically held elections,as a candida -te must win in any elections.Any posturi-ng short of the above submission,is illusion-ary and postponing of the Evil day by any recalcitrant Leader, Globally.