Egypt?s first democratically elected president was ousted Wednesday by the military after barely a year in office, felled by the same kind of popular revolt that first brought him to power in the Arab Spring. The armed forces announced it would install a temporary civilian government to replace Islamist President Mohammed Morsi, who denounced the action as a ?full coup? by the generals. They also suspended the Islamist-drafted constitution and called for new elections. Millions of anti-Morsi protesters in cities around the country erupted in delirious scenes of joy after the televised announcement by the army chief. Fireworks burst over crowds in Cairo?s Tahrir Square, where men and women danced, shouting, ?God is great? and ?Long live Egypt.? ?Don?t ask me if I am happy, just look around you at all those people, young and old, they are all happy,? said 25-year-old protester Mohammed Nageh, shouting to heard at Tahrir. ?For the first time, people have really won their liberty.? Fearing a violent reaction by Morsi?s Islamist supporters, the military sent troops and armored vehicles into streets of Cairo and elsewhere, surrounding Islamist rallies. The head of the political wing of the political wing of Morsi?s Muslim Brotherhood was arrested. Clashes quickly erupted in several provincial cities when Islamists opened fire on police, with at least nine killed in the battles, security officials said. The army?s move is the second time in Egypt?s 2 1/2 years of turmoil that it has forced out the country?s leader. In the first, it pushed out autocrat Hosni Mubarak after the massive uprising against its rule. Its new move came after a stunning four-day anti-Morsi revolt that brought protests even larger than those of 2011, fueled by public anger that Morsi was giving too much power to his Muslim Brotherhood and other Islamists and had failed to tackle the country?s mounting economic woes. This time, however, its removal of an elected figure could be more explosive. Beyond fears over violence, even some protesters are concerned whether an army-installed administration can lead to real democracy. In Washington, President Barack Obama urged Egypt?s military to ?move quickly? to return authority to an elected civilian government. He said he was ordering the U.S. government to assess what the military?s actions meant for U.S. foreign aid to Egypt ? $1.5 billion a year in military and economic assistance. In conversations, senior Egyptian military officers assured U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Gen. Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,they would put a civilian government in place quickly, U.S. officials said. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak by name about the private conversations. Moments after military chief Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi spoke, Morsi said in a statement on the Egyptian president?s office?s Twitter account that the military?s measures ?represent a full coup categorically rejected by all the free men of our nation,? while urging ?everyone to adhere to peacefulness and avoid shedding blood of fellow countrymen.? Morsi has insisted his legitimacy as an elected president must not be violated or Egypt could be thrown in to violence. Some of his Islamist backers, tens of thousands of whom took to the streets in recent days, have vowed to fight to the end. ?Down with the rule of the military,? some of them chanted after the army announcement, reviving a chant used by leftist revolutionaries during the nearly 17 months of direct military rule that followed Mubarak?s removal. The army has insisted it is not carrying out a coup, but acting on the will of the people to clear the way for a new leadership. In his speech, army chief Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi said the chief justice of the Supreme Constitutional Court would step in as interim president until new elections are held. He would be sworn in judges of his court, el-Sissi said. A government of technocrats would be formed with ?full powers? to run the country. El-Sissi spoke while flanked by the country?s top Muslim and Christian clerics as well as pro-reform leader Mohammed ElBaradei and two representatives of the youth opposition movement behind the wave of protests. He promised ?not to exclude anyone or any movement? from further steps. But he did not define the length of the transition period or when presidential elections would be held. He also did not mention any role for the military. The constitution, drafted by Morsi?s Islamist allies, was ?temporarily suspended,? and a panel of experts and representatives of all political movements will consider amendments. He did not say whether a referendum would be held to ratify the changes, as customary. Seeking to avert a destabilizing backlash, he warned that the armed forces, police will deal ?decisively? with violence. After the 9:20 p.m., the Brotherhood?s TV station went blank Shortly before the 9:20 p.m. announcement, the army deployed troops, commandos and armoured vehicles in cities around the country. In Cairo, they stationed on bridges over the Nile River and at major intersections. They also surrounded rallies being held by Morsi?s supporters ? an apparent move to contain them. Travel bans were imposed on Morsi and top figures from his Muslim Brotherhood including its chief Mohammed Badie and his powerful deputy Khairat el-Shater. At least 39 people have been killed in clashes since Sunday, when the mass protests against Morsi began ? hiking fears that greater violence could erupt when the final move was made against him. Street battles in the Nile Delta city of Kafr el-Sheikh on Wednesday left at least 200 people injured. The army?s move is the second time in Egypt?s 2 1/2 years of turmoil that it has forced out the country?s leader. It pushed out Mubarak and took power itself. This time, however, its removal of an elected figure could be more explosive. Elected with 51.7% of the vote in last year?s presidential election, Morsi took office vowing to move beyond his roots in the Muslim Brotherhood. But his presidency threw the country into deep polarization. Those who took to the streets this week say he lost his electoral legitimacy because he tried to give the Brotherhood and Islamist allies a monopoly on power, pushed through a constitution largely written by his allies and mismanaged the country?s multiple crises. ?Now we want a president who would really be the president of all Egyptians and will work for the country,? Said Shahin, a 19-year-old protester in Tahrir, said, falling to the ground to pray as soon as el-Sissi spoke. Mahmoud Badr, spokesman for Tamarod, or Rebel ? the youth movement behind the rallies ? praised the crowds in the streets saying, they succeded in ?putting your revolution back on track.? ?Let?s start a new page, a new page based on participation,? he wrote on his Twitter account. ?Our hand is extended to all Morsi and his allies say the opposition never accepted their appeals for dialogue ? seen by opponents as empty gestures ? and that Mubarak loyalists throughout the government sabotaged their attempts to bring change. The military had issued an ultimatum on Monday giving Morsi 48 hours to find some solution with its opponents. Any deal, however, was a near impossibility, making it inevitable the military would move. Earlier in the day, el-Sissi met with ElBaradei, Egypt?s top Muslim cleric ? Al-Azhar Sheik Ahmed el-Tayeb ? and Coptic Pope Tawadros II, as well as youth representatives and some members of the ultraconservative Salafi movements. The consultations apparently aimed to bring as wide a consensus as possible behind the army?s moves. But the Brotherhood boycotted the session, its political arm the Freedom and Justice Party said. In a last-minute statement before the deadline, Morsi again rejected the military?s intervention, saying abiding by his electoral legitimacy was the only way to prevent violence. He criticized the military for ?taking only one side.? ?One mistake that cannot be accepted, and I say this as president of all Egyptians, is to take sides,? he said in the statement issued by his office. ?Justice dictates that the voice of the masses from all squares should be heard,? he said, repeating his offer to hold dialogue with his opponents. ?For the sake of Egypt and for historical accuracy, let?s call what is happening by its real name: Military coup,? Morsi?s top foreign policy adviser Essam al-Haddad wrote on his Facebook page. The armed forces couldn?t plug its ears or close its eyes as the movement and demands of the masses calling for them to play a national role, not a political role as the armed forces themselves will be the first to proclaim that they will stay away from politics. The armed forces sensed ? given their sharp vision ? that the people sought their support, not power or rule but for general services and necessary protection of the demands of the revolution. This is the message that the armed forces received from all over urban Egypt, its cities, and its villages; it the military recognized the invitation, understood its intentions, appreciated its necessity and got closer to the national scene hoping, willing and abiding by all limits of duty, responsibility and honesty. The armed forces have exerted lots of efforts over the past few months, directly and indirectly, to contain the internal situation and carry out a national reconciliation among all political forces including presidency starting on November 2012. It started with a call for national dialogue that all political forces responded to and was rejected by the presidency at the last moment. Then invitations and initiatives followed and continued since this time until this date. The armed forces presented more than once their strategic assessment of the situation internally and outside the country, including the challenges and the dangers that are facing the nation on the security, economic, political and social levels along with the vision of the armed forces as a national institution on how to contain the causes of the social divisions and remove the causes of congestion and confront the challenges and the dangers to get out of the current crisis. As part of the follow up to the current crisis, the general command of the armed forces held a meeting with the president of the republic at the Qasr al-Qobba presidential palace on June 22, 2013, during which it presented the opinion of the general command and its rejection of harming the national and religious state institution. And it assured its rejection of terrorizing and threatening the masses of the Egyptian people. There was hope of achieving national reconciliation, developing a future plan and providing causes of confidence, assurances and stability to the people in order to achieve their ambitions and hopes. But the president?s speech last night and before the end of the 48-hour ultimatum didn?t meet or agree with the demands of the people. The situation prompted the armed forces, given their national and historic responsibility, to consult with some of the symbols of the national, political and youth forces without excluding or alienating anyone. The participants agreed on the future plan, which includes the initial steps to achieve a strong, coherent Egyptian society that doesn?t alienate of its sons and movements and end the state of struggle and divisions. This map includes: ? Suspending the constitution temporarily. ? The head of the Supreme Constitutional Court takes the oath of office in front of the general assembly of the court. ? Carry out early presidential elections while the head of the Supreme Constitutional Court will be in charge of managing the state affairs during a transitional period until the election of a new president. ? The head of the Supreme Constitutional Court will have the power to issue constitutional declarations during the transitional period until the election of a new president. ? Forming a Cabinet of national, strong, capable experts who enjoy all powers during the current period. ? Forming a committee from across the spectrum and experts to review the proposed amendments of the constitution that has been temporarily suspended. ? Urging the Supreme Constitutional Court to expedite an elections law for parliament and to start to take measures to prepare for the parliamentary elections. ? Putting together a media code of ethics that ensures media freedom and achieves professional standards, credibility and objectivity and to prioritize the nation?s high interests. ? Taking executive measures to empower and engage the youth in the state institutions, to be a decision-making partner as aides to ministers, governors and in different executive posts. ? Forming a supreme committee for national reconciliation of personalities who enjoy credibility and acceptance by all national elites and represent different movements. ? The armed forces urge the great Egyptian people from across the spectrum to abide by peaceful demonstrations, avoid violence, which leads to more congestion and spills the blood of the innocent. It warns that it will confront, with cooperation of the men of the Interior Ministry, with all force and decisiveness any violation of peacefulness according to the law and driven by the national and historic responsibility. ? The armed forces salute and express gratitude to the men of the armed forces, the police, the judiciary, the honorable and the sincere for their great national role and their continued sacrifices to preserve the safety and security of Egypt and its great people. God preserve Egypt and its great defiant people.