In this Tuesday, June 25, 2013 file photo, Egyptian drivers wait outside in long queues at a gasoline station in Cairo, Egypt. Egypt?s descent into even deeper political turmoil puts any plans for economic reforms to secure a $4.8 billion IMF loan into a dangerous limbo. If put on hold, Egyptians will likely face a deterioration in the crisis, from worsening fuel shortages and blackouts, a further depreciation of the currency and a depletion of foreign currency reserves so severe it could make importing critical oil and food items difficult.Amr Nabil 									/ AP An anti-President Mohammed Morsi poster is viewed as as thousands of Egyptian protesters celebrate in Tahrir Square as the deadline given by the military to Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi passes on July 3, 2013 in Cairo, Egypt. The president gave a defiant speech last night and vowed to stay in power despite the military threats. As unrest spreads throughout the country, at least 23 people were killed in Cairo on Tuesday and over 200 others were injured. It has been reported that the military has taken over the state television.Spencer Platt 									/ Getty Images A boy has his face painted the colors of the Egyptian flag as thousands of Egyptian protesters celebrate in Tahrir Square as the deadline given by the military to Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi passes on July 3, 2013 in Cairo, Egypt. The president gave a defiant speech last night and vowed to stay in power despite the military threats. As unrest spreads throughout the country, at least 23 people were killed in Cairo on Tuesday and over 200 others were injured. It has been reported that the military has taken over the state television.Spencer Platt 									/ Getty Images Egyptian opposition protesters celebrate as news is announced of Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi proposing a consensus government as a way out of the country?s political crisis, at Egypt?s Presidential Palace on July 3, 2013 in Cairo, Egypt. As the Egyptian Army?s deadline passed on Wednesday afternoon, President Morsi proposed a consensus government as a way out of the country?s political deadlock between the military and Muslim Brotherhood. As unrest spreads throughout the country, at least 23 people were killed in Cairo on Tuesday and over 200 others were injured. It has been reported that the military has taken over state television.Ed Giles 									/ Getty Images Egyptian opposition protesters celebrate as news is announced of Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi proposing a consensus government as a way out of the country?s political crisis, at Egypt?s Presidential Palace on July 3, 2013 in Cairo, Egypt. As the Egyptian Army?s deadline passed on Wednesday afternoon, President Morsi proposed a consensus government as a way out of the country?s political deadlock between the military and Muslim Brotherhood. As unrest spreads throughout the country, at least 23 people were killed in Cairo on Tuesday and over 200 others were injured. It has been reported that the military has taken over state television. Photo by Ed Giles/Getty Images ORG XMIT: 173052035Ed Giles 									/ Getty Images