Millions of Egyptians gathered to protest President Mohamed Morsi and the ruling Muslim Brotherhood, ransacking the Islamic party?s headquarters and setting it on fire. Six people were killed in the Egyptian protest against the Muslim Brotherhood and President Morsi. At the same time, Morsi received the resignations of four of his cabinet ministers, all doing so in solidarity with the protesters who flooded Tahrir Square on Sunday, one year to the day Morsi was inaugurated. The Tamarod?Movement consists of an alliance between Egypts left, liberal, secular parties harnessed the increased anger at Morsi. Protesters are calling for Morsi to resign and to begin early presidential elections. Alaa al-Aswany, a prominent Egyptian writer who was among the many at the protests who had supported the president just a year ago, stated: Dozens of looters and attackers set the Brotherhood?s headquarters in Cairo. Police have been openly feuding with Morsi, and refused to help. Six people died in the fire, and nine people have died since the protests began on Sunday. Activists have reported dozens of sexual assaults in the square. Egypt?s powerful military warned that it will intervene if Morsi doesn?t meet the people?s demands. He?s been given 48 hours to reach an agreement. Military helicopters swept over Tahrir Square, protesters breaking into cheering after hearing the army?s announcement as it was read on state television. Protesters in the Nile Delta city of Mahalla el-Kubra chanted, urging military Chief General Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi to intervene: The military?s statement puts enormous pressure on Morsi and his Muslim Brotherhood. The president has vowed he will remain in his position, and it may take forcible removal to get him out of his office. Morsi?s supporters claim the opposition are forcibly overthrowing Egypt?s first elected president.?Mohammed Saeed, another Morsi supporter, vowed that he would fight the military if the president is ousted: Supporters of the president also claim that Egypt will break out into civil war if the president is forcibly removed.