After a hiatus of over a decade, the Cherokee nameplate returns to Jeep on a? new front-drive architecture. During its absence, the Jeep Liberty fulfilled duties as the brand?s? compact/midsize five-passenger SUV. While the 2014 Jeep Cherokee might be all-new underneath, design? differences compared to the outgoing Liberty are also vast. Like? the 1984-2001? Cherokee before it, the Liberty featured a rugged, brick-like shape, while? the 2014 Cherokee has more curves with a front grille that cants back over the? hood. The front lighting takes on a similar setup to the Nissan Juke, with LED? running lights and turn signals mounted up high and round headlights integrated? into the front fascia, which can be had body-colored or with gray plastic? accents. The 2014 Cherokee has a more fluidic shape compared to the slab-sided? Liberty, while the D-pillar is less upright and angles forward. Around back, the? Liberty?s conventional vertical taillights have been replaced with horizontal? LED taillights just above a concave shape on the liftgate. While interior dimensions are similar, the styling couldn?t be more? different. Where the Liberty had a straight-edged cabin, the Cherokee features a? sculpted dash and console. Interior materials are also higher quality with? soft-touch material on certain surfaces. Last week, we featured the 2014 Scion tC coupe, which received mixed reviews.? Candler.weinberg didn?t like the design: ?Whoever designed? the front end tortured a catfish and sketched it.? GFE wasn?t a fan of the front end either: ?Talk about copying the Ford? Fusion grille, really?? Not all the comments were bad, though.? Larry Jones was ?glad to see a bit of drama in the front? end,? while DaveRchd said, ?The car looks? great!? Absolute power corrupts absolutely. If you need proof, look no further than the 2015 Dodge Challenger SRT undergoing testing in the desert with a new 600-plus horsepower supercharged V-8 dubbed ?Hellcat?. The Hellcat is Chrysler?s answer to the 662-horsepower Ford Mustang GT500 and 580-horsepower Chevrolet Camaro ZL1. The car will receive power from a supercharged 6.2-liter V-8 that should make it competitive with the aforementioned cars; the current Challenger SRT 392 has a 470-horsepower, 6.4-liter engine. It?s unclear whether both engines will be sold alongside one another. Moving in a cadre of SRT vehicles, the Hellcat-equipped Dodge Challengers look to have revised noses with new, deeper air intakes to feed their vastly more powerful engines. The protruding exhaust setup around back looks temporary to make sure the engine flows properly. Look for the pipes and rear bumper to be revised for the production version. Speaking of production, expect the 2015 Dodge Challenger SRT with the Hellcat engine to go on sale in 2014 as a 2015 model, with the car possibly making its debut at January?s North American International Auto Show in Detroit. Rumors persist that a smaller SRT Barracuda is on its way to replace the large and in charge Challenger, if not complement it as a one-two punch that no automaker has really offered in the muscle car segment since the 1970s. Either way, the Challenger is living on for a few more years after having gone on sale in 2008. Not like we?re complaining. We love the Challenger to the point that we roadtripped in one on the entire length of Interstate 5 from Mexico to Canada. This Hellcat V-8-equipped 2015 Dodge Challenger SRT will likely be on the more luxurious side like the current Dodge Challenger SRT and the muscled-up Chevrolet Camaro ZL1. But if Chrysler wants to give us a stripped-out club racer to compete against the upcoming 2014 Chevrolet Camaro Z/28, too, we wouldn?t mind. Not at all. engine. The Dundee Engine Plant will convert a line to machine cranks, TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. ? Chrysler and Fiat will not invest in electrified? powertrains until consumers are willing to step up and pay for the technology,? said Bob Lee, head of Fiat and Chrysler global Powertrain. Instead, Lee said, Chrysler and Fiat will broaden their North American lineup? with more diesels and downsized, turbocharged gasoline engines. Speaking at the 2013 CAR Management Briefing?s Advanced Powertrain Forum here? this morning, Lee said consumers don?t value hybrids and other electrified? vehicles enough to pay for the added cost of battery packs, electric motors and? chargers. ?Many customers want to reduce C02, but they aren?t willing to change their? lifestyle or pay the cost ? yet,? he said. That might not happen for another? decade, he said. Diesels and smaller, more powerful turbocharged gasoline engines are the? fastest ways Chrysler can improve the fuel economy of its fleet. Chrysler and? Fiat do not have a hybrid powertrain and offer only one electrified model in? North America, the Fiat 500e sold only in California for the same price as a? gas-powered Fiat 500. When Fiat took over Chrysler, it brought with it an array of diesel engines? already in use globally in a variety Fiat brands sold around the world. Chrysler is just now launching a new 3.0-liter V6 turbo diesel in the Grand? Cherokee with an EPA rating of 22 city/ 30 highway for two-wheel drive models.? The engine produces 420 pounds-feet of torque and 240 horsepower. ?We think this? is going to be a big product for us,? he said. Diesels and hybrids deliver roughly the same fuel economy gain over gasoline? engines, between 20 and 30 percent on most vehicles. But diesels offer better? performance, which Lee thinks gives the engine an advantage over hybrids. In addition, adding more diesel engines, Lee said Chrysler and Fiat will? continue to wring out more efficiency by redesigning and improving the parts of? the vehicle that are most energy inefficient. One recent innovation, Lee said, is the four-wheel drive system on the Grand? Cherokee. When it is disengaged, the transfer case and rear driveshaft are? decoupled from the transmissions and do not spin. That improves fuel economy by? about 2 percent, he said. DETROIT Bloomberg ? General Motors Co. said the UAW?s retiree medical? benefits trust is offering to sell as many as 45.5 million warrants to purchase? GM common shares. Each warrant represents the right to purchase one share of common stock at? $42.31 a share, subject to some adjustments, the automaker said in a statement on its Web site. The warrants? expire Dec. 31, 2015. GM won?t receive any proceeds from the offering. GM fell? 2.1 percent to close at $35.96 today. An auction to price the offering was expected to close by 6:30 p.m. today,? according to the statement. Canada?s government has begun a search for investment banks to sell its stake? in GM, a person familiar with the matter said last week. The U.S. has said it? will shed its stake by the end of 2014?s first quarter. Any AMC enthusiast with half an interest in the history of the company can tell you that the landmark two-seater AMX grew out of the Project IV group of four concept cars, one of which was the so-called Vignale AMX, with its working Rambleseat. But what of the other three cars in the group? Though they didn?t directly become production cars in their own rights, they did help shape styling and direction for AMC products over the next several years, yet they tend not to get equal billing with the AMX. Fortunately, while digging through the Special Interest Autos archives, we came across not just the full press release announcing the Project IV cars, but also a full set of press photos for all four cars, which we?re sharing here today. We know the Vignale AMX today is in the good hands of an AMC collector ? what about the other three? And does anybody recognize the building in the background of these photos? NEW YORK, June 20 ? American Motors today unveiled four unique ?idea? cars which will be shown in major cities to test reaction to new design concepts in the sporty and smaller car fields. ?While these car concepts are not being shown as actual prototypes, we expect reactions to the innovations presented will have substantial bearing on future design and engineering decisions,? he said. Right front fender and rear left fender are identical, as are their opposite quarter panels. Hood and deck lid are the same, permitting production from one set of dies. The four doors are produced from two sets of dies rather than four. Front and rear bumpers are identical and may be interchanged. ?The high degree of interchangeability offered by the design of the Cavalier could provide savings of 25 per cent or more in body tooling costs,? Abernethy said. ?The Cavalier design experiment offers interesting possibilities for the world market where parts inventories and body repairs are a consideration,? he added. He noted that the compact dimensions of the Cavalier are ideally suited for overseas markets, with trimness comparable to popular foreign makes. The Cavalier wheelbase is 108 inches. It has an overall length of 175 inches. Height is 50 inches, and width is a trim 65.5 inches. The low silhouette is enhanced by thirteen-inch mag-type wheels. Wrap-around rear safety lights flash alternate warning signals in green, yellow and red. The similarity of body panels is not evident to the eye in the Cavalier?s overall appearance which conveys fleetness and well-balanced configuration. The refined grille treatment and ingeious rear styling dispel any impression of sameness between front and rear. The swept-back roof panel is covered in black vinyl, further enhancing the rich, deep metallic red body. The grille contains deeply recessed headlights in squared housings. The grille wraps around the front fenders and contributes an illusion of width by means of narrow, brushed aluminum horizontal bars with alternate bars in black. Versatility of the Cavalier design is carried out in the unique rear deck lid which can be opened to normal position or elevated to the height of the roof panel for carrying large, bulky items such as small trees or high-standing boxes and furniture. This expanded cargo capacity is made possible through the use of dual-action scissor type hinges on the deck lid. The long hood and short deck proportions of the Vixen follow the basic ?envelope? design concept, with the blending of the upper and lower body forms to complete the one-unit shape. The sports grille design incorporates a ?quad Venturi? look with deeply recessed rectangular headlights contained within an outer perimeter to give the front end an appearance of boldness and individuality. The sleek hood displays a functonal air-intake ?blister? to further promote the Vixen?s sports-car look. The Vixen?s deeply recessed rear window is concave and non-reflective. Its unique shape and positioning make it appear invisible from inside or outside the car. Taillights and backup lights are designed to emphasize the width of the car, and are set high for maximum visibility and safety. Wheelbase of the AMX II is 110 inches. Overall length is 187 inches, width 72 inches, and height, 51 inches. Side and front window glass are curved. The rear window offers a unique modified ?V? appearance to compliment the rear deck sculpture. Finished in a deep metallic green paint, the four-passenger AMX II has a double pin stripe in gold accenting the lower body. Sides are free of ornamentation except for the brushed aluminum edging on the ribbed rocker panels. UPDATE 18.April 2011 : Thanks to Caught at the Curb, we see that there were color photos taken of all four Project IV cars. Interesting that the Vignale AMX was at one point painted blue, and at another painted orange. Of the six years that Jack Carroll spent at AMC, five were in the interior studio, where he produced the sketches and renderings we saw yesterday. That sixth year he spent in the exterior studio, assigned mostly to the Ambassador, and where he was responsible for much of the sheetmetal of the 1967 Ambo. We?ll get to those sketches in a moment, but first, a quick explanation of the above photo: Jack was fortunate enough to share a similar build and height with Dick Teague, AMC?s vice president of styling, so when it was time to set up a photo for Dick, Jack got called to dress up and act as Dick?s stand-in while the lighting and framing was set up. On this day, he got to stand next to the fiberglass AMX prototype that preceded the Vignale AMX. No one buys a Hummer to fade into the woodwork. Instead, look-at-me vehicles like the Hummer do exactly the opposite: They attract the eye, polarize opinion and practically demand to be judged. What?s the car the makes America cringe the most? The Smart ForTwo. We showed a gallery of 12 nominees to 1,500 licensed drivers, who were asked to indicate which one would be embarrassing to be seen in. Then they were asked to rank the three most embarrassing. Finally, they were asked why each vehicle was embarrassing and given the option to write in a reason of their own. Who?s embarrassed? We compared dislike across age ranges, and though tastes were largely similar, they differed most on two vehicles. Drivers 45 and older were far more likely to be embarrassed by the Hummer H2 than younger drivers were, and they were much less likely to be embarrassed by the Volkswagen New Beetle. Some vehicles fared better among men than among women.? Women were more likely to be embarrassed to be seen in a Lincoln Town Car, a Hummer H2 or a Subaru Baja. Men didn?t want to be seen in the New Beetle or the Smart ForTwo. The bolder the car, the bigger the gamble.? Sometimes it works. The wait to buy a PT Cruiser back in 1999 stretched for months. More than 30,000 people ponied up $99 to reserve a place in line before the Smart?s 2008 debut. And the in-your-face Hummer drew critical praise and sold well even as backlash against its size and gas mileage mounted. Others stumbled right out of the gate and disappeared quickly.? The Chevrolet SSR evoked classic pickup truck styling, had a folding hardtop and a lusty V8 engine, and it was gone in a heartbeat. Subaru sold only a fraction of the 24,000 Baja trucklets it expected to move each year and pulled the plug after four model years. In failure, some cars attain a perverse sort of cool. Consider Walter White?s loser-mobile in ?Breaking Bad,? a serially abused, plastic-shrouded Pontiac Aztek minivan/SUV that accrues in death all the street cred it lacked in life. Success doesn?t necessarily spare future embarrassment. Nothing about the Lincoln Town Car was daring except that it sold steadily and largely unchanged for decades, earning derision as the ultimate retiree car ? and a bundle for Ford. Yet the list of write-in candidates indicates that some drivers would prefer even an obsolete dinosaur to conformity and blandness. The top write-in suggestion for most embarrassing car was the very sensible, very successful Toyota Prius. The ?Cringe Score? in the gallery below represents the weight of all first-, second- and third-place votes expressed on a 1 to 10 scale. The Smart ForTwo ? about half the size of a Hummer H2 or Lincoln Town Car ? was the runaway winner. ?It looks like I couldn?t afford a real car,? one participant said. DETROIT ? General Motors is cutting the Chevrolet Volt?s price by $5,000? amid price pressure from rival electrified vehicles. The sticker price on the 2014 Volt, which will arrive at dealerships this? month, will be $34,995, including an $810 destination fee. That drops the? effective price to $27,495, after applying the $7,500 federal tax credit for the? plug-in hybrid. GM cited price competition as a key reason for the price drop. Several other? automakers have reduced prices or sweetened lease deals on EVs and plug-in? hybrids this year. Nissan Leaf sales have surged this year after the automaker in January cut? the EV?s base price by $6,400, to $29,650, including shipping. Leaf sales more? than tripled through July, to 11,703 units, edging sales of the Volt, which are? up 9 percent to 11,643.? The Volt is so superior to the Leaf, which has no motor to kick-in when the batteries are drained, it isn?t even a close comparison.?Ed Meyer ? Last month, Ford dropped the price of its Focus Electric by $4,000, to? $35,995 with shipping. And there are plenty of relatively cheap lease deals on? EVs, including identical $199-a-month offers on the Fiat 500e and Chevrolet? Spark, which both were launched this summer. GM also said it has made ?great strides? in reducing the Volt?s production? cost, Chevy sales chief Don Johnson said in a statement, without quantifying the? savings. GM executives have said that they expect to wring $5,000 to $10,000 out? of the cost of the next-generation Volt, which isn?t expected until 2015. GM said the lower price would boost interest in the Volt by aligning it more? closely with comparable vehicles in research by online shoppers. ?Before, if you were going to price-shop a hybrid or a plug-in, the Volt? didn?t even show up because of price point,? GM spokeswoman Michelle Malcho? said. The lower price should put the Volt in more shoppers? search results, she? said. The recent wave of price reductions and lease deals has spurred sales of EVs? and plug-in hybrids, although such vehicles represent a smaller market than many? automakers and analysts had expected a few years ago. U.S. sales of EVs and plug-in hybrids totaled 41,447 units this year through? June, the latest figure available from research site hybridcars.com By? comparison, Dodge sold 44,949 Dart compact sedans over the same span. Many dealers were already selling the Volt at well below sticker. GM has been? offering cash rebates of $4,000 on 2013 Volts since June, and $5,000 on 2012? models. In July, the average U.S. transaction price for the Volt was $38,578 and the? average incentive per unit was $10,489, TrueCar.com says. And since mid-2012, GM has run a stair-step program that awards dealers? escalating bonuses as they hit factory-set sales targets. That has provided many? dealers tens of thousands of dollars in bonus cash to? defray the Volt?s sticker price. The Volt runs on battery power for a range of 38 miles before a 1.4-liter? gasoline-powered generator kicks on to recharge the battery, giving the car an? overall range of 380 miles on a full charge and a full tank of gasoline. Although Volt sales have fallen short of GM?s original targets, the company? lauds the vehicle as a success that has garnered a loyal owner base, attracted? buyers from other brands and sharpened Chevy?s reputation for technology. More than 70 percent of Volt buyers are new to GM, the company says. The car? landed atop Consumer Reports? annual owner-satisfaction survey in 2011 and? 2012. GM said 2014 models begin shipping from its Detroit-Hamtramck assembly plant? today and will arrive in showrooms within a few weeks. The only changes from the? ?13 model are two new colors ? ashen gray metallic and brownstone metallic ?? and a leather-wrapped steering wheel. ACME, MICH. ? Ford said today it has introduced the next phase of a program to to continue to work more closely with 104 select companies of which 76 make production parts. The goal is to roll out new technologies faster while improving both quality and overall profitability, Birgit Behrendt, Ford?s vice president of purchasing operations, said at the Management Briefing Seminars near Traverse City. Aligned Business Framework 2.0 is part of a larger effort to have fewer but larger global suppliers who can reduce costs through economies of scale and deliver parts globally. Ford wants to do all sourcing through 750 suppliers. There are 1,150 now. Behrendt would not say how long it will take to whittle them down. The updated framework will improve communication between Ford executives and suppliers, and speed new technology ideas to market. ?The evolution of the Aligned Business Framework helps us to further integrate with our product development team, and encourages our suppliers to bring their best and most innovative technologies to Ford,? said Behrendt. ?As we continue to consolidate our supply base, we plan to increase the amount of business we?re conducting with ABF suppliers to around 70%,? she said. Ford is sourcing 65% of its global production business with ABF suppliers now, up from 34% when it was introduced in 2005. Key components and service suppliers are identified as part of the effort to consolidate the supply base as Ford has increased its vehicle capacity by 400,000 units in 2012 and another 200,000 units this year. ACME ? Automakers can expect the good times to keep rolling, and one optimistic analyst told an industry conference in Acme that Americans could come close to buying 17 million cars a year by mid-decade, a peak not seen since 2001. Itay Michaeli, an analyst with Citi Investment Research, predicted the U.S. market will reach between 16 million and 17 million by 2016. The industry?s best year was 2000, when Americans bought 17.3 million, and 17.1 million in 2001. Michaeli dismissed the notion that the recovery is fueled by pent-up demand ? people desperate to replace worn-out wheels. Sales went up last year even though the U.S. fleet aged. The Center for Automotive Research, sponsor of this week?s conference at Grand Traverse Resort, has a more conservative forecast: U.S. sales of only 15.4 million this year; 15.7 million next year and growing to 15.9 million for 2015 and 2016, said C.A.R. forecaster Sean McAlinden, chief economist for the Ann Arbor research center. R.L. Polk data released Tuesday shows the average car or truck on the road is a record 11.4 years old, based on a review of more than 247 million registrations earlier this year. There are reasons for caution, however. Baby boomers are dominating the market. Job creation is modest at best, especially for young people who are less able to buy cars and less interested in owning them. ?No matter how you look at it, this has been a subpar recovery,? said Mustafa Mohatarem, General Motors? chief economist. ?Companies are just not hiring.? At GM, ?we planned for the recovery and put capacity in place,? Mohatarem said of pickup demand. The plan has not deviated from the start of the year as GM prepared to launch its new family of full-size pickups that are now on sale. Consumers in the 55-to-64 segment bought 23% of U.S. vehicles in 2011, up from 18% in 2007. At the same time, those between 35 and 44 accounted for 22% of vehicle purchases in 2011, down from 29% in 2007. Those baby boomers were 15 times more likely to buy new vehicles than 18- to 24-year-olds in 2011, the study found. Some conference speakers challenged the notion that young people don?t want to buy cars. The problem is they just cannot afford them yet. From 2001 to 2010, millennials ? those born after 1980 ? have seen a 44.2% decline in their net worth, their income has fallen 6% and student loan balances grew 91%, said Anthony Pratt, director of forecasting for R.L. Polk. In terms of their personal lives, 22% are delaying having children, 20% are delaying marriage and 24% of college graduates are back living with their parents or other family members. But those under 30 are getting driver?s licenses at a lower rate. In addition to not being able to afford new cars, many young consumers are discouraged by the high cost of owning a vehicle. A study released Tuesday by University of Michigan researchers surveyed about 600 young adults ages 18-39 about why they do not have a driver?s license. The No. 1 reason, cited by 37%, is being too busy; 32% who cited cost to buy and operate a vehicle. A big factor is that 66% were not employed. Another top reason: 31% said they can easily get a ride from someone else. Disturbing for the auto industry is that almost 21% said they would never seek a driver?s license, but most were older. Among 18- to 19-year-olds, only 7% said they would not get their license. Only 69% of those surveyed plan to become legal drivers in the next five years. While the young are not buying cars now, when they get older their economics will improve and GM?s Mohatarem said he fully expects them to be buyers. ACME ? A surge of new model launches that will soon accelerate is straining the ability of automakers and suppliers to keep production on schedule without major quality glitches, several industry officials said Tuesday. General Motors has hired about 200 quality engineers to work with suppliers in the field to help with the onslaught of new vehicles. The effort began last summer, Grace Lieblein, vice president of global purchasing, told reporters at the Center for Automotive Research annual U-M Management Brief Seminars. ?If you don?t have a great relationship with a supplier, it is hard to get that extra capacity or suggestions to improve your product,? Lieblein said. ?That is all discretionary. They don?t have to show us and give us technology they are working on. ?You can?t transform a relationship overnight, but we have made a big improvement.? Anthony Pratt, director of forecasting for R.L. Polk, said the industry has 17 new vehicle launches in 2013 and they have largely been managed successfully. That will grow to 41 next year, and there could be 17 in a single quarter. ?It means there is a reduced margin for error,? Pratt said. Many suppliers survived near-death experiences and bankruptcy in 2008 or 2009. They are now operating fewer factories and employing fewer workers. That worked as new vehicle sales gradually rebounded in 2011 and 2012. But this year, Americans are on pace to buy at least 15.5 million new cars and trucks, and some suppliers are struggling to keep up. Of GM?s new army of quality engineers, about a third are contract employees, Lieblein said. They are on suppliers? plant floors to identify where they need help and to diagnose potential problems to ensure constraints don?t become a bottleneck. It is part of a larger effort by GM to improve relationships with its suppliers, including training sessions in all parts of the world. Automakers and suppliers often dispute who should pay for defective parts that lead to recalls. Lieblein said there is a new term in GM?s supply contracts that a part shouldn?t ?pose an unreasonable risk,? but she said that does not mean suppliers are more on the hook for the cost of recalls. She also defended requests for more access to financial information as part of a desire for a more open and transparent relationship. GM will have fewer suppliers in the future and is looking to bring more work in-house. ?Engineering and purchasing are going through every commodity and assessing sourcing with an eye to bringing it inside,? Lieblein said. ?We?re looking at where it makes sense.? Lieblein came up through the product development rather than purchasing ranks. Ford recently announced that engineer Hau Thai-Tang will replace retiring purchasing chief Tony Brown at Ford. Chrysler has engineer Scott Kunselman heading its purchasing. Knowing details of a car?s design and engineering helps a purchasing leader understand a supplier?s parts and technology. Lieblein and her team are working to bring suppliers into the process before parts are even designed. ?In the past, we gave suppliers a statement of requirements to meet,? she said. ?We are engaging suppliers before we start designing parts now.? TRAVERSE CITY, MICH. ? Americans are keeping their cars and trucks longer than ever, and even with new car sales increasing, the average age will continue to rise, an industry research firm says. The average age of the 247 million cars and trucks on U.S. roads hit a record of 11.4 years in January, the latest figures available from state registration data gathered by the Polk research firm. That?s up from 11.2 years in 2012, and nearly two full years older than in 2007, before the start of the Great Recession, Polk said Tuesday. People are keeping their cars because the quality is so much better and they are trying to avoid the monthly payments, said Mark Seng, a Polk vice president. The annual percentage of cars and trucks sent to the scrap yard has dropped 50 percent since the recession, he said. ?Cars are just lasting longer,? he said. The company doesn?t see the age dropping for at least five years, even though U.S. vehicle sales are running at an annual rate of around 15.5 million, which is near pre-recession levels. And it predicts that the percentage of cars age 12 or older will actually rise in the next five years. The change creates a big opportunity for repair shops and auto-parts stores, Seng said. ?Customers from independent and chain repair shops should be paying close attention to their business plans and making concerted efforts to retain business among the do-it-for-me audience, while retailers have a unique and growing opportunity with potential consumers wrenching on their own vehicles,? he said. U.S. sales have risen gradually from a 30-year low of 10.4 million in 2009 because of low interest rates, appealing new models and pent-up demand as people replace aging vehicles they kept through the recession. The sales rebound prompted Polk to raise its estimate of the total number of vehicles on U.S. roads by 5 percent to more than 260 million in five years. But Seng said many people intend to keep running their older cars into the future, adding that he can?t remember another time that the average age has grown as quickly. The growth rate in the average age will slow in the coming years, but won?t start falling until new-car sales rise and stay high for several years. Older vehicles would have to be scrapped at a higher rate, as well, he said. ?With the quality of the vehicles, that?s not going to happen,? Seng said. More people also are financing cars for 72 months, meaning they?ll keep their cars for at least six years and probably longer, Seng said. The compact disk player has begun the long slow fade-out from cars. But unlike other automotive anachronisms ? think CB radios or hideaway headlights ? the CD player is making an agonizingly drawn-out exit despite more convenient ways to bring music to cars ? such as smartphones, iPods or other players, streaming and other technologies ? rapidly taking its place.? The problem with iPods and smartphones as a music source is the music is not high fidelity as on a CD.? We have a whole generation of iPod kids who have no idea what true high fidelity music sounds like.? I convert our CD?s to a thumb drive on my computer and load it into Anna?s Grand Cherokee.? But I still like the Grand Cherokee?s hidden CD slot for other songs I haven?t had time to combine into a thumb drive album.? We also need the CD slot for the DVD?s to play on the? satellite TV system.? Any vehicle with home theater/Satellite TV?will always have to have a DVD/Blue Ray/CD slot.?Ed Meyer In the meantime, there is a trend in cars still offering CD slots to banish from prominence on dashboards and hide them away as options in spaces often more associated with parking meter change or packages of tissues. The disappearance of the CD player from the dash is happening not just in tech-heavy cars like the Tesla Model S or tiny cars cramped for space like the Smart. Among others: ? Opt for the 8.4-inch multimedia touch-screen in a 2013 Dodge Dart, and the CD player goes into the center armrest ? a spot that underlines just how many drivers Dodge expects to use it. ? Up-level versions of the all-new 2014 Jeep Cherokee and redesigned Grand Cherokee, forego CD players entirely. You can still get one, but it goes in the center armrest or glove compartment. ? Chevrolet?s 7-inch MyLink touch-screen in the 2014 Sonic eliminates the CD player altogether. ? Order a Cadillac with the CUE infotainment system and the CD is banished to the center armrest or glove compartment. ? In the 2014 Kia Soul and 2013 Chevrolet Spark, you can?t buy a CD player in any trim. The new 2014 Mazda3 moves the CD slot down the dash stack to the center console level. But with two USB ports for mobile devices or thumb drives, Mazda officials don?t see CD slots lasting much longer. ?Eventually, it will be pulled from ours,? predicts David Matthew, a Mazda marketing official. Of course, the reason for the long goodbye is obvious: mountains of CDs accumulated over the years by owners unwilling to see their collections destined for the high-tech trash bin. ?There?s so much investment in our CD catalog,? says Mike VanNieuwkuyk, executive director of global automotive for J.D. Power and Associates, which released findings of a study earlier this year that shows a drop-off in CD listening while driving. The survey found external devices such as iPods or smartphones have pulled even with CD players as listening devices in cars. Automotive designers are shedding no tears for the embattled CD. They?re already using the space it occupied for larger center stack screens. ?The center stack is such precious real estate,? says Klaus Busse, Chrysler?s interior design chief. ?Every millimeter, not just every inch, counts.? And the slot for pushing in disks, is not the only space issue caused by the player in the electronics-packed center stack. Busse says all the components in that area generate heat and take up room behind the scenes, affecting, for example, the routing of air-conditioning ducts. Cluster them too close together, and you complicate packaging or risk overheating. ?If you don?t have to worry about this CD-player brick, you have much more flexibility,? he says. Joseph Medearis grew up in what seemed to be a solidly middle-class family. His dad was an attorney. His mom was a teacher. Medearis was a smart kid and a very good competitive swimmer, but things slipped away and by the time he graduated from Brentwood High School in 1995, he had lost interest in school and swimming. He drifted off to St. Louis Community College at Meramec. Drifted is the word for it. He didn?t attend many classes. He dropped out and got a job at a car wash. When he wasn?t drunk, he was high. Somehow, he managed to avoid serious trouble until November of 2001. That?s when he robbed the Commerce Bank across from St. Mary?s Health Center. He was arrested the next day. I live down the street from the bank, so I was interested in the case. I visited Medearis in the county jail. As per agreement with his attorney, we did not talk about the robbery. That was fine with me. I knew that he?d been arrested at his girlfriend?s apartment ? she had been the getaway driver ? and he had confessed. In addition, police had recovered $2,700. So we chatted about life. He said his dad had struggled with booze and had gone to prison for multiple DWIs. His drinking led to a divorce. Life wasn?t quite as idyllic as it had seemed. Medearis struggled with his own demons. Mainly, heroin. Twice he had gone to rehab. The second time he met a young woman in the program. She was the girlfriend and getaway driver. He was charged with first-degree robbery because he had indicated in his note that he had had a gun. That was the only part of his case we talked about. He wanted to make it clear he didn?t have a gun. ?I?m not a violent criminal. I?m a drug addict,? he said. He received a 10-year sentence. He was released on parole in May of 2010 and discharged from supervision in November of 2011. On July 29, a man robbed the Fifth Third Bank branch in Clayton. He made no effort to disguise himself. This newspaper and the local television stations ran his photo. Three detectives from the Clayton Police Department worked the case ? Tom Bossch, Mark Seagle and Brian Tyschen. Because of the quality of the photo from the bank, they figured they?d get a call from somebody. They did. Somebody from a local hospital recognized the man in the photo. He and his girlfriend had been in the emergency room a couple of days earlier. They had been unruly. Drunk, stoned, something. Now the detectives had a name. It did not ring a bell. They learned he was living with his father in a nursing home in Kirkwood. They went to the nursing home. Staff members at the nursing home told the detectives the father?s condition had deteriorated and he had been moved to a hospital. His son was dead. Apparently, a suicide. His body was found the morning after the bank robbery. He was staying with a woman at the Grand Motel in the 2500 block of North Grand Boulevard. Early on the morning of the 30th, the woman went to the front desk. She said her boyfriend had shot heroin the night before and when she found him in the morning, he had a plastic bag over his face. The police were called. So was the Medical Examiner?s office. Medearis was pronounced dead at 7:43. He reportedly left a note. An investigator from the Medical Examiner?s office said it would be weeks before an official cause of death is cited. Toxicology tests take a while. The investigator also stressed that they had only the woman?s word that Medearis had put a plastic bag over his face. Without an official finding on cause of death, much is conjecture. One officer involved in the case said it appeared that Medearis had used the money from the bank robbery to buy heroin. A last fling. I thought about our talk in the county jail more than 10 years ago. One thing we talked about was women. So many guys get lost and then get led out of the fog by a woman. That almost happened to me, Medearis said. He said he had been working as a roofer and had been just respectable enough to attract the interest of a nice young woman. But he couldn?t quit drugs. Just couldn?t do it. Those can be demons with long hooks. Tired of his drug use, the young woman eventually left him. The woman at the motel apparently was fighting the same demons as Medearis. Neither could help the other. The Medearis family had a service Sunday for Joseph. In lieu of flowers, they asked that donations be made to the St. Louis chapter of the National Alliance on Mental Illness. VW has sold more than 47,000 vehicles with diesels in the U.S. so far this year ? almost 78% of U.S. diesel sales for passenger cars. ?The Volkswagen Group is a leader in clean diesel technology,? said Schmidt, adding he is excited that the VW family of diesel vehicles continues to improve. The investment is on top of a previously announced $183-million investment. The spending is expected to create or keep 1,800 jobs, but GM wouldn?t say how many new people would be hired. The company also wouldn?t identify the new vehicles. They could be new versions of the Chevrolet Equinox and GMC Terrain crossover SUVs. The plant now makes the Equinox along with a factory in Canada. Although they are selling well, they were last reworked in 2009. They compete against newer vehicles like the Honda CR-V, Ford Escape and Toyota RAV-4. Spring Hill is a former Saturn plant that now employs about 2,000 people who also make four-cylinder engines. GM announced in 2011 that it would add 700 jobs to build the Equinox, and that it would add 1,200 jobs to build two more midsize vehicles for the 2015 model year. The Spring Hill plant produced more than 3.7 million Saturns between 1990 and 2007. Most of the facility?s workers were then furloughed while the plant underwent a $600-million overhaul to build the Traverse crossover. The changes included retooling to build vehicles made of sheet metal panels, as most Saturns built at the plant were plastic-body cars. At its peak, the facility employed nearly 8,000 workers. By 2009, that number was down to about 630. TOKYO Reuters ? Highly radioactive water from Japan?s crippled Fukushima nuclear plant is pouring out at a rate of 300 tonnes a day, officials said on Wednesday, as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe ordered the government to step in and help in the clean-up. The revelation amounted to an acknowledgement that plant operator Tokyo Electric Power Co Tepco has yet to come to grips with the scale of the catastrophe, 2 1/2 years after the plant was hit by a huge earthquake and tsunami. Tepco only recently admitted water had leaked at all. Calling water containment at the Fukushima Daiichi station an ?urgent issue,? Abe ordered the government for the first time to get involved to help struggling Tepco handle the crisis. The leak from the plant 220 km 130 miles northeast of Tokyo is enough to fill an Olympic swimming pool in a week. The water is spilling into the Pacific Ocean, but it was not immediately clear how much of a threat it poses. As early as January this year, Tepco found fish contaminated with high levels of radiation inside a port at the plant. Local fishermen and independent researchers had already suspected a leak of radioactive water, but Tepco denied the claims. Tetsu Nozaki, the chairman of the Fukushima fisheries federation said he had only heard of the latest estimates of the magnitude of the seepage from media reports. Environmental group Greenpeace said Tepco had ?anxiously hid the leaks? and urged Japan to seek international expertise. ?Greenpeace calls for the Japanese authorities to do all in their power to solve this situation, and that includes increased transparancy?and getting international expertise in to help find solutions,? Dr. Rianne Teule of Greenpeace International said in an emailed statement. In the weeks after the disaster, the government allowed Tepco to dump tens of thousands of tonnes of contaminated water into the Pacific in an emergency move. But the escalation of the crisis raises the risk of an even longer and more expensive clean-up, already forecast to take more than 40 years and cost $11 billion. The admission further dents the credibility of Tepco, criticised for its failure to prepare for the tsunami and earthquake, for a confused response to the disaster and for covering up shortcomings. ?We think that the volume of water leaking into the Pacific is about 300 tonnes a day,? said Yushi Yoneyama, an official with the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry, which oversees energy policy. Tatsuya Shinkawa, a director in METI?s Nuclear Accident Response Office, told reporters the government believed water had been leaking for two years, but Yoneyama told Reuters it was unclear how long the water had been leaking at the current rate. Shinkawa described the water as ?highly? contaminated. The water is from the area between the crippled reactors and the ocean, where Tepco has sought to block the flow of contaminated water by chemically hardening the soil. Tetsu Nozaki, head of the Fukushima fisheries federation called for action to end the spillage. ?If the water was indeed leaking out at 300 tonnes a day for more than two years, the radiation readings should be far worse,? Nozaki told Reuters. ?Either way, we have asked Tepco to stop leaking contaminated water into the ocean.? Abe ordered his government into action. The contaminated water was ?an urgent issue to deal with?, he told reporters after a meeting of a government task force on the disaster. ?Rather than relying on Tokyo Electric, the government will take measures,? he said after instructing METI Minister Toshimitsu Motegi to ensure Tepco takes appropriate action. The prime minister stopped short of pledging funds to address the issue, but the ministry has requested a budget allocation, an official told Reuters. The Nikkei newspaper said the funds would be used to freeze the soil to keep groundwater out of reactor buildings ? a project estimated to cost up to 40 billion yen $410 million . Tepco?s handling of the clean-up has complicated Japan?s efforts to restart its 50 nuclear power plants. All but two remain shut since the disaster because of safety concerns. That has made Japan dependent on expensive imported fuels. An official from the newly created nuclear watchdog told Reuters on Monday that the highly radioactive water seeping into the ocean from Fukushima was creating an ?emergency? that Tepco was not containing on its own. Abe on Wednesday asked the regulator?s head to ?do his best to find out the cause and come up with effective measures?. Tepco pumps out some 400 tonnes a day of groundwater flowing from the hills above the nuclear plant into the basements of the destroyed buildings, which mixes with highly irradiated water used to cool the fuel that melted down in three reactors. Tepco is trying to prevent groundwater from reaching the plant by building a ?bypass?, but recent spikes of radioactive elements in sea water prompted the utility to reverse denials and acknowledge that tainted water is reaching the sea. Tepco and the industry ministry have been working since May on a proposal to freeze the soil to prevent groundwater from leaking into the reactor buildings. Similar technology is used in subway construction, but Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said that the vast scale of Tepco?s attempt was ?unprecedented in the world.? The technology was proposed by Kajima Corp, , a construction company already heavily involved in the clean-up. Experts say maintaining the ground temperatures for months or years would be costly. The plan is to freeze a 1.4 km nearly one mile perimeter around the four damaged reactors by drilling shafts into the ground and pumping coolant through them. ?Right now there are no details of the project yet . There?s no blueprint, no nothing yet, so there?s no way we can scrutinise it,? said Shinji Kinjo, head of the task force set up by the nuclear regulator to deal with the water issue. Additional reporting by Osamu Tsukimori, Kentaro Hamada, Emi Emoto and William Mallard; Editing by Aaron Sheldrick and Ron Popeski TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. ? Economists continue to be bullish on the North? American auto industry, despite a slow-growing economy, forecasting record? production and a surge in sales in the next few years. In an annual roundtable on the state of the industry, a panel of six? economists from automakers and consulting firms forecast a full recovery from? pre-recession levels by 2016 and an expansion by 2020. They differed somewhat on? the pace and the drivers of the expansion, but overall described a North? American industry that will see increasing volumes and that is building better? quality vehicles which last longer. Still, they see problems, especially in demand from younger buyers who are? having trouble finding jobs and from a supply base that is reticent to invest,? given its recent history. Sean McAlinden, chief economist for the Center for Automotive Research,? places the annual sales rate, or SAAR, for 2013 at 15.4 million in the U.S.,? climbing steadily to 15.9 million in 2016 and 16 million in 2017. ?It?s probably? premature to say we?re leveling off,? McAlinden said. Though the percentage of those aged 18 to 34 who are getting drivers?? licenses has declined sharply, younger people have not lost their interest in automobiles. Instead, they are having difficulty affording vehicles in the? face of ballooning student loan debt, rising insurance and fuel costs, says G.? Mustafa Mohatarem, chief economist for General Motors Co. Mohatarem says that, despite the climb in the SAAR from its low of 2009, the? recovery still is not complete. ?We are not even back to trend. Things are very, very positive,? Mohatarem? argues. Anthony Pratt, director of forecasting for the Americas for research firm? Polk, said that automakers will have a record number of new or significantly? reworked vehicles over the next three years, further driving demand for new? automobiles. Leasing has returned to 19.9 percent of new registrations, the? highest level in five years, and 72 percent of loan originations are for 60? months or longer, easing pricing pressure on automakers. Global demand for automobiles will cross 100 million in 2018, driven mostly? by growing markets in Asia and South America, said Mike Jackson, director of? automotive forecasting for IHS Automotive. Growth in exports from North America? to other markets will push outputs to five years of record levels above 17.2? million, beginning in 2016. The growth will be concentrated in mid-sized, compact, subcompact and mini? segments and take advantage of global platforms. Gasoline-powered vehicles will remain dominant for the next two decades as? improved efficiency and transmissions power mileage gains, says Mike Omotoso,? senior global powertrain forecaster for LMC Automotive. Gasoline will lose some market share to light-duty diesel, but electric? vehicles will remain a niche market at less than 3 percent of total sales? through at least 2025. Meanwhile, gains in build quality and technology offerings are changing the? way consumers shop for cars. ?Quality is becoming less of a consideration, because quality is up across? the board,? Omotoso said. TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. ? U.S. auto sales will boom in 2015 when drivers? replace aging vehicles, an economist with Citigroup argues. Itay Michaeli, director of U.S. autos and auto parts for Citi Investment? Research and Analysis, argues that the 11.4 year average age of the U.S. fleet? is approaching the point where scrap rates begin to explode. Using Polk data, Michaeli studied the makeup of the 11.8 million vehicles? that were scrapped last year, and found that the rate of scrappage rises? dramatically at 13 years. He predicts an annualized U.S. sales rate between 16 and 17 million no later? than mid-decade, and Michaeli argues that automakers? product plans may be? poised to take full advantage of what is to come. ?In 2014 and 2015, the rate of vehicle designs and refreshes with tremendous? new technology is going to come right at the time when we think the vehicle age? will start to hit that ideal range when scrap rates tend to balloon,? the? Citigroup economist said. Even with a sales balloon on the horizon, Michaeli sees trouble in the ratio? of vehicles-per-household in the United States, specifically among 35- to? 44-year-olds, who he says have delayed purchasing a second vehicle because of? lingering economic doubts. ?This industry needs a large part of society to have two cars per household,?? Michaeli said. As baby boomers older than 45 retire and reduce the number of cars they own,? the 35 to 44-year-olds have delayed decisions to expand the number of cars they? own. Editor?s note: An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated the? average age of all U.S. light vehicles registered in 2012 and 2010. LOS ANGELES ? Americans continue to hang onto their cars, minivans and? crossovers ? many of them first purchased when President Clinton was in office? ? and helping to push the average age of the nation?s light-vehicle population? to a record high, according to data released from R.L. Polk today. Polk said the average age of all light vehicles on the road now stands at a? record high of 11.4 years. That?s up from 11.2 years last year, and 10.9 years? in 2010. Beginning in 2002, when the nation?s car and light-vehicle fleet was an? average 9.8 years old, it has continued to rise in age for 11 consecutive? years. For passenger cars, the average age has hit a record high of 11.4 years,? while the average age of light trucks has increased to a record 11.3 years, Polk? said. The latest data is based on a review of over 247 million U.S. car and light? truck registrations in January, Polk said. The volume of 6- to 11-year-old vehicles actually declined slightly in the? most recent Polk survey, while the number of vehicles older than 12 years? increased by more than 20 percent. Sales hit a 27-year low of 10.43 million units in 2009. ?These are interesting times for the automotive aftermarket,? said Mark Seng,? vice president of Polk?s aftermarket practice. ?Customers from independent and? chain repair shops should be paying close attention to their business plans and? making concerted efforts to retain business among the do-it-for-me audience,? while retailers have a unique and growing opportunity with potential consumers? wrenching on their own vehicles.? Americans are holding onto cars and light trucks longer for economic reasons,? particularly since the recession, and because vehicles are engineered and? assembled to last longer, analysts say. At the same time, the nation?s aging car and light-truck population is? creating pent-up demand that is spurring U.S. new-vehicle sales higher, analysts? say. Polk projects the total number of cars and light trucks in operation will? grow 5 percent to more than 260 million vehicles by 2018, up from the current? level of 247 million vehicles. The number of registered light vehicles in the United? States hit a record of 250 million in 2008, during the latest economic downturn,? Polk said. After all, Tesla has built literally thousands of cars in less than a year,? whereas Fiat and Peugeot have built millions upon millions for decades. But those storied automakers have serious weaknesses, among which is relying? on the cratered European market for much of their profits. That has had a major? impact on earnings, thus damaging their stock prices and market caps. So let?s look at the histrionics of Tesla?s stock price ? which closed? Monday up another 5 percent to $144.68 a share ? in another light. The price? retreated 1.8 percent to $142.11 today. But at $16.7 billion as of Monday, Tesla?s market capitalization was nearly? equal to that of the entire publicly traded U.S. coal industry. And this back-of-the-envelope calculation appears to be correct based on the? combined market capitalization of the nation?s top publicly traded mining? companies, adjusted for their non-coal interests. To be clear, @harfangcap is a shorter who sees Tesla as seriously overvalued,? but he has a point. Is Tesla really worth more in the scheme of things than all the companies? that turn on the lights ? and, coincidentally, recharge the Teslas ? of more? than one-third of America?s households? There are myriad factors that go into determining a company?s stock price,? and consequently its market capitalization. But to my mind, the factor that? seems most sensible to me: How much would people care if this company suddenly? went away? If Tesla were to evaporate, there would be some tears shed, some regret that? such a promising technology met such an early demise and some predictable? Republican screaming that they were right about it being another Solyndra. But if the entire U.S. coal industry were to suddenly shut down, America? would be in chaos. Most of the homes and businesses east of the Rockies would be? dark. Imagine that for a minute. With Tesla scheduled to report second-quarter earnings on Wednesday, the? market is awash in options trading. Bears with short positions took a bath when? Tesla stock blasted from $30 a share past $100 in the few weeks following the? company?s first-quarter profit announcement. The average fuel economy of 2013 model vehicles sold in the United States? through July is 24.7 mpg, up 1.2 mpg compared with 2012 vehicles, according to a? monthly report from University of Michigan researchers. New vans, SUVs, cars and pickups sold in July had an average fuel economy of? 24.8 mpg, up 0.1 mpg from June and tying the record high from March, April and? May this year, according to researchers Michael Sivak and Brandon Schoettle. Schoettle, project manager at the university?s Transportation Research? Institute, said that new-vehicle fuel economy has been fairly stable for several? months. ?We feel this is primarily a result of the price of gasoline in the U.S.? remaining fairly stable over the same period,? Schoettle said in an emailed? statement. ?These data indicate that demand for fuel efficient vehicles at? dealerships remains high ? in addition to recent increases in new-vehicle sales? in general.? The average fuel economy of new vehicles sold in July is up 4.7 mpg since? October 2007, when the researchers began collecting data. ?The trends so far indicate that 2013 [models? average fuel economy] should? finish significantly above last year?s average,? he said. ?The average for this? year is already 1.2 mpg higher than last year, the largest improvement since the? start of our monitoring.? The average sales-weighted fuel economy was calculated using vehicle models?? monthly sales and the combined city-highway fuel economy ratings for each model? from the EPA Fuel Economy Guide. The university?s national Eco-Driving Index, which calculates the average? monthly greenhouse gas emissions from a U.S. driver who bought a new vehicle? during the month, dropped to 0.81 in May from 0.82 in April. A lower index score? is better, and the scores are compared with a base score of 1 in October 2007,? when the researchers began collecting data. SEOUL Reuters ? Hyundai Motor Co.?s labor union in South Korea will vote? to decide whether to go on strike after it failed to reach a deal on wages and? benefits with management today, a union spokesman said. Union members at the automaker?s biggest production base plan to vote on Aug.? 13 on whether or not to stage a strike as there was little progress in the over? two-month-long wage talks, Kwon Oh-il told Reuters. ?We declare the collapse of talks because there is little progress despite 18? rounds of negotiations since May 28,? he said. The potential walkout may cloud the outlook for Hyundai, which is struggling? with slowing sales and tight supply at home, the United States and other? markets. Last year, the union staged a series of partial strikes over pay and? conditions in July and August, its first in four years and stopped Hyundai from? making 82,088 cars worth 1.7 trillion Korean won $1.50 billion in its? costliest strike ever. This year the union is demanding a bonus equivalent to eight months? salary? on top of a basic salary increase. It also demands an employee who works at? Hyundai for 40 years should receive gold weighing 56.25 grams and bonuses of two? months? salary. The union also calls on the company not to seek legal punishment? for union members regarding ?union activities.? ?We are sorry that the union walked out of talks even before we narrow? differences on their extensive demands. We doubt whether the union is sincere? about talks,? a company spokesman said, urging union negotiators to return to? the negotiation table. In the United States, Hyundai is losing market share because of tight supply? and aging models. Hyundai Motor reported a forecast-beating profit in the April to June period,? but it was still down for a third consecutive quarter, partly due to weekend? production stoppages by the union from March 9 to June 1. TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. ? Faurecia, a giant in interior parts, is now setting? its sights on exteriors. The French supplier believes there is opportunity in bumper fascias, hoods? and front-end modules in North America, says Mike Heneka, president of Faurecia? North America. ?A couple of automakers are asking us to get in,? Heneka said today on the? sidelines of the 2013 CAR Management Briefing Seminars here. ?We spent the past? two weeks in meetings with OEMs on it.? But Heneka is frank on Faurecia?s outlook: Before expanding into exteriors,? he wants firm, long-term commitments from customers. ?We?re No. 1 in exteriors in Europe ? we?re last in North American? exteriors,? Heneka says. ?It?s a very captive market here now, and the? automakers would love for us to come in, be it Mexico or the United States.? Producing bumper fascias inside an auto plant, as companies such as Toyota,? Nissan and Honda do, is challenging because they require ample space and clean,? dust-free environments. And it?s an expensive business to get into, Heneka says, requiring an? investment of about $30 million for one plant. It would take more than a single? model cycle to pay off an investment. ?One-customer facilities are always risky,? the executive says. ?But the auto? companies recognize all this, and we?re discussing how we could do it.? At the same time, Faurecia has invested in manufacturing of carbon-fiber? reinforced plastic, and Heneka believes its U.S. customers will now ask for more? carbon-fiber body panels as part of their lightweighting challenge. The supplier additionally envisions expanding into more front-end module? production. It is active in that segment in Europe, but barely so in North? American yet, Heneka says. The company last year added $1.3 billion in North American sales, primarily? from interiors. Heneka forecasts North American sales of $7 billion in 2016. Faurecia ranks No. 7 on the Automotive News list of the top 100? global suppliers with worldwide sales to automakers of $22.5 billion in 2012. In? North America, the supplier posted $6.1 billion in sales to automakers in 2012,? according to the Automotive News data center. Automotive software vendor Dealertrack Technologies Inc. said net income? dropped 35 percent in the second quarter from the year-earlier period to $3.8? million. The drop was due in part to comparisons with a year-earlier period when? net was boosted by a $3.5 million gain, net of taxes, on the sale of assets. However, its income from operations rose 34 percent to $7.6 million and? revenue rose 26 percent to $121.8 million. A year ago, the company benefited? from a onetime $3.5 million gain from the sale of assets. The company?s revenue is based partly on the number of times auto dealers? process vehicle registrations, use Dealertrack?s software to submit credit? applications and carry out other functions. ?Customers are increasingly embracing our vision of transforming automotive? retail through integrated technology solutions,? Mark F. O?Neil, CEO of? Dealertrack, said in a statement. ?During the second quarter, we saw? accelerating organic subscription revenue growth. We also saw strong trends in? transaction revenue independent of healthy car sales and credit trends, as we? increased average transaction price per car sold through growing adoption and? cross selling of registration, titling and lien services.? ? Net income: To $10-$12 million, from $9.5-$12.5 million. The company said the upward revisions reflect the trend of higher car sales.? It now predicts 2013 new-vehicle sales by franchised dealers will be? approximately 15.5 million units, 300,000 more than it previously forecast, and? used-vehicle sales by franchised dealers will be 15.4 million, up 400,000 from? the prior forecast. Tejas Desai, head of electronics for Continental Automotive, said the? technology provides reliable network connectivity and enhanced security, which? is needed to solidify the automobile as a mobile device. ?The expectations for connectivity and safety are a large step up from? consumer electronics,? Desai said during an event here at the 2013 CAR? Management Briefing Seminars. ?Losing a signal on a mobile phone or tablet? happens, but in auto, we?re not willing to tolerate that loss.? The proof-of-concept vehicle is able to reliably? switch from 3G, 4G and other wireless networks depending on cost and quality? preferences from the user, automaker or service provider, Desai said. The car can also operate as a mobile hotspot, whether it?s running or not,? Desai said. The car also uses Cisco?s enterprise software enabling advanced security to? the mobile connection. Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., has been a key player in the world of? internet connectivity for the last two decades. ?We have to give them drivers safety and security, but we can give them? their freedom back too,? Desai said. The joint development represents the industry?s increased shift of merging? the information technology with its engineering base, he said. ?IT and auto haven?t done a lot of prior work together and now we?re getting? them in the same room, and those two worlds are creating technologies like? these. Continental, based in Hanover, Germany, ranks No. 3 on the Automotive? News list of the top 100 global suppliers with estimated worldwide sales to? automakers of $32.8 billion during its last fiscal year. Andreas Mai, director of product management at Cisco Systems Inc., on Monday? said the big data generated by a connected car is worth a cumulative $1,400 a? year to the motorist, automaker, society and service providers. ?We see this as an opportunity for a new breed of companies,? said Mai. ?The? question is, how do you slice this cake?? ??The motorist can save $550 by enjoying better fuel economy, less time? stuck in traffic, lower insurance rates, etc. ??Society can save $420 by employing car platoons to speed up traffic? and increase a road?s capacity. ??Service providers can earn $150 by providing traffic guidance,? navigation, parking, emergency services, etc. ??Automakers can save $300 in lower warranty costs, profitable apps,? etc. There are privacy issues, Mai acknowledged. The big question is whether? motorists will allow automakers to use their vehicle data. However, Mai believes? motorists will agree to share their data if they get a concrete benefit from it,? such as lower insurance rates if they share data with their insurer. According to a survey commissioned by Cisco, 74 percent of motorists were? willing to share vehicle information, Mai said. But access to that information? has yet to be sorted out ? a potentially sticky issue, since the automaker would? share that data with other companies. ?There have to be rules about who owns the data,? Mai said. ?Most likely it?s? the consumer, since he bought the car. A balance needs to be struck.? In March 2009, Ford Motor Co. asked suppliers to bid for a contract to? provide wire harnesses for the Ford Fusion and Lincoln MKZ. It should have been an attractive proposition for two high-volume sedans.? But, oddly, some suppliers weren?t interested, Ford says in a federal lawsuit. The bid of supplier Fujikura Ltd. was ?completely non-competitive,? the suit? says, while Sumitomo Corp. and some other unnamed harness suppliers refused to? bid at all. In retrospect, that was an early clue that something was rotten in the state? of wire-harness suppliers. This July, outsiders got a glimpse of just how rotten? when the automaker sued Fujikura in U.S. District Court in Detroit. The automaker claims Fujikura and other co-conspirators named in the suit? ?Yazaki Corp., Sumitomo and Furukawa Electric Co. ? engaged in price-fixing? over the Fusion and MKZ contract. The lawsuit is intriguing because it offers a glimpse of high-stake? negotiations that normally occur behind closed doors. And it raises interesting? questions about Ford?s legal strategy. For instance: Why did Ford sue a supplier? that did not get the Fusion and MKZ contract? Unbeknownst to Ford, Fujikura and some other wire-harness suppliers had? agreed that Yazaki and ?certain other co-conspirators? would bid on the Ford? contract, according to the lawsuit. Since the four largest wire-harness suppliers, which Ford does not specify,? controlled 77 percent of the global market in 2009, prospects looked bleak for a? robust round of bidding, the suit says. Wire harnesses are networks of wires that carry electricity from the battery? or alternator to the radio, headlights, dashboard display and other electrical? devices. To keep prices high, Ford claims, the suppliers also limited their production? capacity, a tactic made possible by the relative lack of competition. Ford does? not reveal the amount of the contract. Ford says it spent $10 billion to purchase wire harnesses in the United? States and elsewhere for all Ford vehicles from Fujikura?s co-conspirators? during the conspiracy period, which ?lasted from at least as early as January? 2006 to 2010.? The suit reveals more bad news: Despite its legions of purchasing experts,? Ford says it could not determine what a wire harness ought to cost. In 2006, the automaker had asked suppliers to specify the cost of each? harness component, along with labor costs and overhead. According to Ford,? Sumitomo and some other suppliers resisted. And even when vendors did supply that information, Ford says it could not independently verify the cost of subcomponents purchased by the wire-harness makers. In addition, some wire-harness suppliers make their own copper wire, and Ford could not assess its true cost easily. According to the lawsuit, Ford awarded its contract in October 2009 to an? unnamed supplier. Ford says it discovered the bid-rigging conspiracy when? everyone else did, after Feb. 24, 2010, the day that regulators in Europe, Japan? and the United States raided the offices of wire-harness companies. Japanese? officials raided Yazaki, Sumitomo and Furukawa, Ford?s suit says. Since then, Fujikura, Yazaki, Sumitomo and Furukawa have acknowledged their? involvement in bid-rigging via plea agreements with the U.S. Department of? Justice. Over the past three years, regulators in the United States, Europe and Japan? have conducted probes of alleged price-fixing schemes among other companies? supplying a range of auto parts. Within the wire-harness industry, Fujikura?s? co-conspirators collectively have agreed to pay $670 million in fines in the? United States. We may have to wait awhile for additional revelations. A Ford spokesman,? declining further comment, told Automotive News that the lawsuit? ?speaks for itself.? A Fujikura spokesperson did not respond to an e-mail request last week to? comment for this report. That leaves unanswered questions. n First, Ford sued a supplier that did not get the wire-harness contract.? Does Ford plan to sue a company that did? Or will Ford seek compensation in? negotiations behind closed doors? n Second, will Ford sue suppliers in other product segments ? such as safety? systems, instrument clusters, electrical components ? in which suppliers have? admitted price-fixing in the current global investigation of auto suppliers? Michael Brady, a litigation expert with Warner Norcross & Judd, a Grand? Rapids, Mich., law firm, speculates that Ford may file additional lawsuits as? the Justice Department wraps up its probes of other product sectors. n Third, can we expect other automakers to sue? When Fujikura pleaded guilty? last year, the company confessed that its bid-rigging activities had victimized? Subaru. Undoubtedly, the list of victims doesn?t stop there. Under U.S. law, a plaintiff can seek triple damages against a supplier that? engaged in bid-rigging. Damages are the difference between an honestly bid? contract and one inflated by anticompetitive practices. The threat of triple damages is a powerful tool of the Sherman Antitrust Act.? Brady says: ?It?s a huge hammer.? When Ted Britt Ford launched a radio ad campaign 18 months ago in the? Washington area touting the lowest new-vehicle prices in town, the dealership? also hired a full-time researcher to stand behind that promise. That researcher spends every workday checking vehicle prices on rival Ford? dealers? Web sites and reports her findings to Evelyn Smallwood, general sales? manager of Ted Britt Ford in Fairfax, Va. Smallwood uses the information each day to adjust new-vehicle prices at the? Fairfax store and at Ted Britt Automotive Group?s Ford-Lincoln store in nearby? Chantilly, Va. The prices are reflected on the stores? Web sites and third-party? online shopping sites where their vehicles are listed. ?We?re making good on our promise,? said Smallwood, who at 33 has been? general sales manager of the Fairfax store for six years. It?s not that Ted Britt Automotive is anti-technology. For instance,? Smallwood said the group is happy with the way software vendor vAuto helps the? stores manage used-vehicle inventory and pricing by gleaning information on? competitors from multiple sources. But new-vehicle pricing at Ted Britt Ford is more personal. Smallwood?s? assistant, Emily Robinson, is employed full time surfing rival Web sites and? dutifully logging vehicle prices on a spreadsheet. Then about 2 p.m. every day, Robinson calls to Smallwood, ?Are you ready??? before giving the rundown, Smallwood said. ?Our whole goal is to move metal and sell to a happy customer,? Smallwood? said. Last year, Ted Britt Automotive Group was one of just 22 Ford franchisees? around the country named as a Triple Crown winner for excellence in sales,? service and customer satisfaction. The two stores together sell between 400 and? 500 new vehicles per month, Smallwood said. Smallwood?s credibility is on the line with the stores? low-price guarantee.? She is the voice on the radio commercials, recording them in an office in the? store. Those commercials, which promise to beat any competitor?s best deal, run on a? country FM station in the market, WMZQ. ?You know we sell a lot of trucks ?? Ford Country, Toby Keith,? Smallwood said. Until a couple of years ago, the Fairfax store could stay a high-volume? dealership by simply quoting $1,000 under invoice price, Smallwood said. That? was good enough to beat most of the competition. But as pricing generally became more sophisticated, Ted Britt Automotive? turned to its simple but effective price verification system to ensure? discounts. The group has branded its deals as the VIP price. Said Smallwood: ?We know where we?re at. We?re comfortable that we?ll deliver? the best deal.? TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. ? The auto industry?s switch to global platforms will? trigger a shakeout of the world?s component suppliers. Global suppliers are best qualified to produce parts for those vehicles. But? it?s not clear yet how much Chrysler will shrink its supplier network. The? automaker currently has 1,200 parts suppliers, Chrysler said. It expects to have? fewer in years to come, but Kunselman?s purchasing team is still working out its? global strategy to purchase parts. Ford Motor Co. appears to be further along in its consolidation drive. Birgit? Behrendt, the company?s vice president of purchasing operations, said Tuesday? that the company currently has 1,150 suppliers, and eventually will winnow that? number down to 750. ?It is a positive approach,? Behrendt said. ?The prior approach certainly? wasn?t working for us, and it wasn?t working for our suppliers. There is nothing? wrong with being a Tier Two supplier.? ?It gives you a buffer between the regions,? Kroon said. ?We don?t have to? build maximum production capacity in every region.? The Commission said it wanted to guarantee the impartiality of an analysis of? the refrigerant being carried out by Germany?s motor vehicle department, the? KBA. It offered independent technical support for the investigation. ?The main objective will be reassuring manufacturers and the consumers that? all means were invested to ensure the principles of objectivity and transparency? in the risk assessments,? said a spokesman for Industry Commissioner Antonio? Tajani. Authorities in France have refused to register Mercedes A-class, B-class and? CLA-class models built since mid-June because they use a refrigerant with? chemical properties that do not comply with a new EU directive on global? warming. Daimler has said its refusal to phase out the refrigerant R-134a is justified? by safety concerns over the only available replacement, Honeywell? International?s R1234yf. Daimler late last year recalled all Mercedes-Benz cars worldwide that used? R1234yf, saying that crash simulations showed it was more flammable than first? believed. The company says that, based on 2012 deliveries, the French block could? affect about 2 percent of its global sales, or 29,000 cars. Honeywell and its partner, DuPont, control the global supply of R1234yf,? which is forecast to rack up billions of dollars in sales. The old industry standard set the global warming potential at more than 1,000? times that of CO2, whereas Honeywell says its new product is only four times? more potent. The KBA, the first official body to investigate the validity of Daimler?s? claims, has been heavily criticized by both sides over the secrecy of its tests,? whose results are expected in the coming days. The Commission said results would only be published after a comparison was? made between the KBA?s results and those of previous industry studies that? concluded risks were only minimal. FRANKFURT Reuters ? Audi reported a surge in July sales on Wednesday,? helped by growth in China and rising demand for its SUVs. Sales rose 10 percent? last month to 131,300 vehicles, driven by a 27 percent jump in volumes in China,? its single-largest market. For the first seven months of the year, sales increased 7 percent to 911,800? vehicles. Through July, Audi?s sales are up 19 percent in China, 14 percent in? the United States and down 2 percent in Europe. ?After a strong first half of the year, we expect to surpass our strategic? target of 1.5 million deliveries this year, two years earlier than planned,?? Luca de Meo, Audi?s board member for sales, said in a statement. ?This is also? underlined by our deliveries in July, which we were able to increase thanks? primarily to strong demand for the new A3 family and our Q3 and Q5 SUV? models.? Audi is key to parent Volkswagen Group. The premium automaker has helped? bolster the parent company?s credit rating so it can fund an ongoing acquisition? spree that has so far included truckmaker MAN, Porsche?s sports cars business? and Italian motorcycle brand Ducati. Were it not for Audi?s 13.5 billion euros $17.97 billion in net cash at the? end of June, Volkswagen?s automotive business would have no war chest at all,? and actually would have had to report it owed about 2.2 billion. Audi said sales of its Q3 SUV increased 62 percent in January through July as? global demand for smaller, cheaper, more fuel-efficient SUVs grows. Rival Daimler has said that one reason its Mercedes-Benz brand lags Audi and? BMW is its lack of a product to compete against the Q3 and BMW X1. To address that problem, Mercedes will unveil the production version of its? GLA SUV at the Frankfurt auto show next month. Daimler CEO Dieter Zetsche has said that he wants Mercedes to be the? top-selling premium brand by 2020, rising from No. 3 now behind Audi and global? leader BMW. ??Around 911,800 deliveries worldwide since January, up 6.9 percent ??Sales chief Luca de Meo: ?The A3 family and Q3 and Q5 SUV models? continue to fuel growth? Ingolstadt, August 7, 2013 ? Successful beginning to the second half of the? year: AUDI AG delivered around 131,300 cars to customers in July, representing an? increase of 9.8 percent year-on-year. Especially the brand?s SUV sales made a? significant contribution to this growth. Demand for the models with the four? rings made particularly strong gains in China, up 27 percent. Worldwide, Audi sold a total of around 911,800 cars in the first seven months? of the year, thereby increasing deliveries by 6.9 percent. ?After a strong first half of the year, we expect to surpass our strategic? target of 1.5 million deliveries this year, two years earlier than planned,?? says Luca de Meo, Member of the Board of Management for Sales at AUDI AG. ?This? is also underlined by our deliveries in July, which we were able to increase? thanks primarily to strong demand for the new A3 family and our Q3 and Q5 SUV? models.? Following the successful launch of the Sportback version in February, around? 113,600 customers received the keys for a model from the A3 family from January? through July +9 percent . In this period, sales of the Q3 compact SUV increased? by 61.9 percent, while those of the Q5 rose by 17.1 percent. For both SUV models? combined, a total of around 50,900 more units were sold than one year? previously. In China in particular, these SUVs drew large crowds to dealers and? contributed significantly to the strong results for the month. Unit sales for? Audi climbed by 27.0 percent in July to 41,766 cars sold. In addition to the Q3? and Q5, both of the other locally manufactured models reported significant? increases: the A4 L was up 20.9 percent and the A6 L up 21.5 percent. Altogether, Audi exceeded the? year-on-year figure for deliveries in China by 19.0 percent 269,905 units in? the first seven months. Audi continues to post strong double-digit growth in the entire Asia-Pacific? region: up 19.1 percent from January through July. Significant growth was? achieved in this period in Japan, for instance, with an 18.9 percent increase in? sales and in South Korea, where Audi sales rose by 30.4 percent. In the first seven months, the company also enjoyed double-digit growth in? the North America region with a 13.7 percent increase. The United States was the? crucial growth driver here. Audi of America was able to deliver 87,341 cars to? customers during this period, representing an increase of 13.6 percent. In the? month of July alone, 13,064 deliveries represented an increase of 11.6? percent. The Q5 made the largest volume contribution in the last month, and the? full-size category also grew at a disproportionate rate in July, with a sales? increase of 26 percent. The diesel versions of the A6 and A7, just launched in the U.S.? market, will strengthen this segment for Audi further in the upcoming months.? The A8 TDI has already been available at dealers since April. In Europe, Audi managed to finish out the month of July at levels close to? those of the previous year -0.2 percent despite challenging economic? conditions on the domestic continent. The company currently remains slightly below the 2012 figure for the first? seven months of the year with sales of around 443,350 cars, representing a? decline of 2.2 percent. However, these results indicate that Audi?s performance? was more stable than the European market as a whole. In Germany, sales declined by 4.8 percent to 150,249 deliveries in the first? seven months of the year. In July, the difficult economic environment continued? to make its presence felt in the markets hit hard by the crisis such as France? -6.1 percent , Italy -3.6 percent and Spain -1.6 percent . Audi business in Europe was strengthened in the past month by Russia, with a? 7.1 percent increase in deliveries, and by the United Kingdom. Here, demand for? models with the four rings increased by 18.9 percent to 10,550 units. This? growth was driven by models in the full-size category in particular, sales of? which climbed by 32 percent. MUNICH ? Hyundai aims to boost European sales of its i10 model after? improving the minicar?s roominess and driving dynamics. The new i10 is longer and wider than the current car to expand cabin space,? but the model is also lower to give it a more dynamic appearance. Hyundai released pictures and some details of the i10 today ahead of the? car?s debut at the Frankfurt auto show next month. The i10 is Hyundai?s No. 4-ranked seller in Europe. Hyundai sold 5,592 units? of the i10 in the region in the first half, down from 6,724 the year before,? according to JATO Dynamics data. Hyundai did not give engine details for the i10, saying it will release more? information ahead of the car?s debut in Frankfurt on Tuesday, Sept. 10. As with? the current car, the new i10 will be sold in five-door, gasoline versions? only. MUNICH ? Western European car sales rose 4 percent to 950,444 in July,? helped by an additional selling day and a stabilizing economy, LMC Automotive? said. LMC said the annualized selling rate at almost 11.5 million units was a? little weaker than in previous months, but the analyst forecast that sales will? benefit as the region?s underlying economy begins to improve. ?The situation will slowly pick up over the remainder of the year,? said? Jonathon Poskitt, an analyst at LMC in Oxford, England, in a statement. Full-year western European sales will fall 3 percent to 11.41 million units,? LMC forecasts. That compares with an 8 percent drop last year. Seven-month sales? are down to 5 percent to 7 million cars. Passenger car registrations increased in Germany, the UK, France and Spain? last month. Sales in Germany, the region?s biggest economy, were up 2 percent but are? down 7 percent in the first seven months. LMC said it is unlikely that the? German market will reach 3 million units for the full year. UK registrations increased by 13 percent and industry association SMMT raised? its forecast for the full year, predicting growth of 8 percent to 2.22 million? vehicles instead of the 3 percent increase foreseen earlier. UK sales have risen by 10 percent in the first seven months, helped by? zero-percent financing and vehicle-price discounts. Demand in the UK continued? to expand because of ?solid improvements? in both private and fleet sales in? July, Poskitt said. French car sales rose 1 percent, the first increase in almost two years, as? new models and dealer discounts attracted customers. Seven-month sales fell 10? percent. Car sales in Spain rose 15 percent, supported by a government-backed? scrappage program. Year-to-date sales are down 2 percent. Italian car sales fell? by 2 percent, the smallest contraction in almost two years. Seven-month sales? declined by 10 percent. Industry executives are forecasting that the European car market will shrink? by about 5 percent this year, the sixth annual drop, amid the region?s? sovereign-debt crisis. German factory orders increased by the most in eight months in June. UK? industrial production that month beat forecasts and Italy?s economic contraction? slowed in the second quarter, according to figures released today, adding to? evidence of a nascent recovery. First-half registrations in the EU abd EFTA markets fell 7 percent from a? year earlier to 6.44 million vehicles, industry body ACEA said last month. The? June figure was the lowest for the month since 1996, and the six-month number? was the least since 1993. Ford has been expanding fast in Russia since 2011 when the company formed a? joint venture with Sollers, the country?s second-largest automaker after? AvtoVAZ. Ford Sollers is adding local production of SUVs to help boost annual? output to 350,000 units at its plants in St. Petersburg and Tatarstan. CEO Ted? Cannis talked with Automotive News Europe Reporter Nick Gibbs about the? joint venture?s plans. Ford?s vehicle sales in Russia fell by 19 percent in the first half? in a market down 6 percent. Why? The market is shrinking but we?re seeing that customers are buying higher? priced vehicles with more content. Ford sold 130,809 cars in Russia in 2012 What are your mid-term? targets for the country? We are committed to expanding production capacity to 350,000 by 2015, but I? wouldn?t say it?s a sales target. We cannot source enough SUVs right now. Explorer sales quadrupled and Kuga? sales tripled in the first half. How fast are you expanding production in Russia? We began local production of the Kuga in Russia from kits in May and in the? second half we will start full production, which will increase availability. We? started full production of the Explorer in April and we will build the EcoSport? in the second half of next year. We began local production of the Kuga in Russia from kits in May and in the? second half we will start full production, which will increase availability. We? started full production of the Explorer in April and we will build the EcoSport? in the second half of next year. SUVs account for about 35 percent of new vehicle sales in Russia. How? much growth is there? I think it can easily go over 40 percent by 2016. Russia is an SUV market for? good reasons: the weather conditions, all-wheel-drive, ground clearance. Fuel? economy is less of an issue than in western Europe because fuel is more? affordable. Russia?s car sales are forecast to fall by 5 percent to 2.8 million? this year. Is the market in trouble? The European crisis is not helping Russia, but the fact that the country has? some stability when its key trading partner is having a difficult time shows? that the fundamentals are strong. We expect a 5 percent decline but the loan? subsidies [for cars cheaper than 750,000 rubles 17,500 euros ] show that the? government is committed to the automotive industry. When will Russia overtake Germany to become Europe?s biggest car? market? Depending what happens with Europe, I would say demand will be above? Germany?s in 2015-2017. Car ownership is around half that of Spain, disposable? incomes are high, taxes are low and families tend to be 10 years younger than? European families buying vehicles. How big do you expect the Russian market to become? We consistently talk about 4 million cars in the mid- to long-term. Will the estimated $10 billion that is being invested by automakers? in Russian production create overcapacity? If the industry stays flat, then it will be a good time for Russians to buy a? car. But if the market resumes its previous growth trend and there is global? economic stability, then the capacity will get used up pretty quick. What will be the production split between your St. Petersburg factory? and your two Tatarstan plants? The Tatarstan plants will have annual capacity of about 200,000. St.? Petersburg?s will be 150,000. We have dealers in 81 cities. In the next five years we will add another 20? percent, taking us to around 150. How important is it to have a local partner such as? Sollers? Very important. We assessed the local partner opportunities when we realized? we didn?t have the space in St Petersburg to expand capacity. Our choice was to? invest in all-new facilities and find and train the work force or to find a? partner that could bring those facilities. The Sollers facilities in Tatarstan? are fantastic and that was a much faster solution than going it alone. Is the rapid growth of Chinese car sales in Russia a? threat? They are certainly becoming more competitive and play a key role in the value? segment. We think we have the quality, the technology and the features so in the? near term we don?t see any concerns, but in the long-term we all watch them very? closely. Birgit Behrendt, the company?s vice president of global programs, said today? that 104 suppliers in Ford?s Aligned Business Framework will get a bigger share? of the pie. However, Behrendt did not indicate how long it would take to shift? more of Ford?s purchasing to these vendors. Behrendt confirmed today that these 750 suppliers will get all future Ford? contracts, while an additional 400 vendors eventually will be dropped from? Ford?s supplier network. ?We?ve always said we wanted our ABF suppliers to participate in our growth,?? Behrendt said today in an interview. ?They?ve almost doubled their share of our? purchasing budget [since 2005], and we don?t think we?ve reached the limit.? WOLFSBURG, Germany ? The XL1 is Volkswagen?s vision of an extreme? high-mileage future commuter car. It marries a strong, lightweight carbon fiber? body with slick aerodynamics, an efficient diesel-electric plug-in hybrid? powertrain and sports car looks. VW recently invited auto writers to test drive the 1,753-pound coupe on? public roads in and around the company?s hometown. The Lamborghini-like doors open upward, exposing an interior whose two seats? are offset; the passenger sits slightly farther back than the driver. To save weight, VW used no sound-deadening materials, so every mechanical? noise the car makes finds its way to your eardrums. And yet the experience is? pleasurable. You can hear the electric motor whirring smoothly as you roll away from a? stop. The 830cc, two-cylinder turbodiesel sitting sideways behind you turns on? when extra acceleration is needed or when the battery power runs low, and you? can hear every stroke of the slow-running engine. And when you step on the brakes, the ceramic rotors sound like two bricks? rubbing together. Still, the car is entertaining to drive and you are acutely? aware that you are using very little energy as you coast along with the ebb and? flow of traffic. The XL1 begins limited production this fall to test new manufacturing methods? and to get real-world consumer feedback. VW says the car meets European safety? standards and upcoming Euro 6 emissions requirements. VW has built 50 units and? plans to assemble another 200 by year end in the old Karmann plant in Osnabruck,? Germany. The XL1?s body is carbon fiber monocoque with steel, aluminum and magnesium. Like other plug-in hybrids, the XL1 starts from a stop using the electric? motor. The range on electric power is 31 miles with a top speed of about 50 mph.? The transmission is a seven-speed dual clutch with paddle shifters on the? steering wheel. The XL1 is tuned for maximum efficiency, so the diesel engine turns slowly? and pulls hard, which is where diesels are their most efficient. VW engineers? goal to wring maximum efficiency from the XL1 left no part of? the car untouched. The outside mirrors have been replaced with cameras to reduce? wind resistance. The cameras give the driver front, side and rear visuals on the? dash-mounted screen. It takes some familiarization time, but it works. Some of the XL1?s technology could appear in future VW production cars. VW? spokesman Darryll Harrison says there are no plans to bring the car to North? America. VW did not say how much the XL1 costs to build, but the car is likely very? expensive. It uses almost all proprietary parts and has a hand-built body, doors? and unique powertrain. TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. ? Nissan is making plans to begin building more? electric Leafs as dealers clamor for more of the once slow-selling car. The automaker?s North American factory chief ? who has been visiting with? retailers in recent days ? cautions that production will move ahead in small? and careful steps. But Nissan is already taking measures to increase its output of electric? motors from its engine factory in Decherd, Tenn., says Bill Krueger, Nissan? Americas vice chairman and senior vice president for manufacturing, purchasing? production engineering and supply chain management. Krueger, speaking today on the sidelines of the 2013 CAR Management Briefing? Seminars here, said the company also will decide next month whether to add a? second shift to its production of lithium-ion battery modules for the car in? Smyrna, Tenn. Retailers have been selling about 2,000 Leafs a month lately ? three to four? times its volume of a year ago, before the car was moved into U.S.? production. Through July, Nissan sold 11,703 Leafs in the United States ? a 230 percent? increase over the 3,543 units sold during the seven months last year. The? company sold 1,864 of the cars in July, compared with 395 during July 2012. ?Sales needs to give us the green light, and we?ll decide in September,?? Krueger says. ?We want to know is this a spurt, or is this long-term? ?But we don?t want to ramp up and then ramp back down,? he said. ?We want to? see that it?s sustainable. You don?t want to end up with a bunch of cars out? there that you can?t sell.? Nissan is the only North American automaker that produces an all-electric? car, its battery module and the electric motor that powers it. The battery is an unusual piece of automotive hardware, with each battery? taking a full month to ?bake? from chemicals into a module that can absorb and? store energy. In a consumer sampling that might give automaker legal departments pause,? more than a third said that if autonomous vehicles come to market, automakers? and their software suppliers ought to bear legal responsibility for traffic? accidents. More than 80 percent were concerned that computer hackers would take over? control of their cars. Bjorn Giesler, project leader for Audi AG Piloted Driving? program, told an audience that the industry wasn?t doing a good job of? addressing such security concerns. ?We?re all concerned about security,? he acknowledged. ?But does any? automaker actually have a team of hackers working for them to see if they can? break in and kill the system?? There are also unresolved questions, including what happens when an? autonomous system clicks off, handing power back to the driver ? but the driver? is incapacitated, asleep, inebriated or injured. NEW YORK Bloomberg ? TI Automotive, the closely held auto-parts maker? founded almost a century ago, is exploring options including a sale that may? fetch about $1.5 billion, people with knowledge of the matter told? Bloomberg. The company, based in suburban Detroit, is working with Deutsche Bank AG on? finding bidders, said three of the people, who asked not to be named because the? process is private. JPMorgan Chase & Co. also is involved, one of the people? said. TI is owned by a group of U.S. and U.K.-based hedge funds, according to? two people. Sometimes it becomes painful apparent that you don?t know what you don?t? know. A band of grad students from Clemson University?s automotive engineering? school were tasked a couple of years ago with designing a bona fide Mazda? concept car that they have just delivered. What they unearthed along the way may? be a little uncomfortable for automakers for the next few years. The Clemson students spent two years asking the question, what do young car? buyers really want? No ? what do they really want? The answer they got back is a car segment that doesn?t exist yet. And worse,? it isn?t even clear yet how engineers might make it exist. The Gen Y crowd wants a car that is sporty on the outside, but roomy on the? inside, the team says. But more specifically, they want to be able to drive? around with their friends ? many friends ? all together in the same car, like? a big social event. A five-seater isn?t good enough. And a seven-seater tends to translate to a? frumpy minivan ? which they expressly don?t want ? or a? crossover/SUV, which they also don?t want. This solution also isn?t perfect, they admit. Side-impact regulators might? blanche at the idea of a center passenger moving sideways into his neighbor? without a side airbag. But the problem has at least been laid on the table? now. According to the Clemson research, young and not-so-wealthy Gen Y consumers? don?t really like entry-level cars. They don?t want bottom-of the-line. They? want a more expensive car. But they can?t necessarily afford it. ?This young generation is really a difficult market,? says Paul Venhovens,? the Clemson professor and former BMW executive who supervised the student? project. ?They don?t really gravitate to econo-boxes. They seem to want what? they can?t afford.? NEW YORK ? A new study by credit bureau TransUnion confirms something? lenders have believed but generally couldn?t prove: Customers who completely pay? off their credit cards every month are more likely to pay off their other debts,? too, including auto loans. ?What?s so key is that the same consumers who apply for credit cards also? apply for auto loans,? Ezra Becker, vice president of research and consulting? for TransUnion?s financial services business unit, said in an interview? here. Becker is co-author of the study, which gathered massive amounts of data on? consumer payment behavior. He pointed out that with losses on auto finance so low, an improvement in? reducing losses of a small fraction of one percentage point is significant. For example, Ford Credit reported that in the second quarter, excluding? bankruptcies, delinquencies over 60 days for U.S. loans and leases combined? represented only 0.13 percent of the amount outstanding, flat vs. a year? ago. Becker said the TransUnion study found a spectrum of payment behavior ? and? also risk ? between two kinds of consumers: transactors and revolvers.? Transactors pay off their entire credit card balance every month. Revolvers pay? amounts less than the entire outstanding balance, ranging to as little as the? minimum amount due, he said. In general, the closer revolvers get to paying off the entire balance, the? less risky they are. That?s commonsensical. But Becker said lenders had a hard? time proving it. Lenders could check credit history to see whether a consumer was delinquent,? but they could check specific payment data only for their own credit cards and? loans. The TransUnion study looks ?across the consumer?s wallet? to credit cards? and loans from all lenders, Becker said. ?You could have someone who?s paid up? on one card and not on another,? he said. Becker also found that some subprime borrowers were an exception to the rule? that paying in full, or close to it, meant less risk. He said some subprime? buyers paid nearly all of their credit card debt in a given month by? short-changing another account. Dealerships that don?t get serious about selling service contracts outside? the F&I office are missing out on big bucks, F&I veteran Jeff Amegod? says. Amegod is the developer and operations manager for Pacific Dealership? Services, a dealership training and consulting firm in Laguna Niguel, Calif.? He?s also a former store finance manager. Here are four of Amegod?s tips. 1. Get started. ?Dealers are leaving large sums of money on? the table.? ?When a client phones asking about an extended warranty, most frequently they? are directed to a voicemail,? Amegod says. ?I?ve researched this. Half of them? leave a message with their contact information and the fact that they?re? interested in an extended warranty. Eighty to 85 percent of the time they do not? receive a return call. ?When a customer does reach somebody live and asks about buying a service? contract, nobody takes their contact information. F&I managers are too busy,? and the clients end up buying coverage elsewhere.? 2. Get serious. Have a trained, dedicated, full-time person? sell extended service contracts either in the service department or in a? dedicated warranty department. ?Make it hypothetical,? Amegod says. ??I?m thinking of buying my neighbor?s? car. What kind of coverage could I buy?? I?ve been told, when I was in finance? myself, the first thing I needed to do was bring it in for an inspection. ?It?s? a two-hour procedure; it?ll cost you $350.? That?s on my nickel! ?Then I?m quoted a price that was two to three times what we were offering? for the exact same coverage. That?s where it pays to have a trained person who? is 100 percent knowledgeable on the different coverage.? ?For example,? Amegod says, ?there could be a ?warranty remaining? option for? used cars with remaining months or miles on the new-car warranty. The new one? doesn?t take effect until the new-car warranty runs out. If you tell someone? they have a year left, the customer will always say they have a year to decide.? You may never see that customer again. Anything can happen. ?You can also offer zero-percent financing on a service contract. A lot of? dealers don?t seem to know that?s available. It?s paramount to use some? marketing techniques.? That question came to mind while I was thinking about a couple of recent columns. One was about two bank robbers lost in a time warp. They came into the bank with guns and fake bombs, and they got into a shootout with police as they raced away. Their plan was like something out of the ?30s, when bank robbers really were able to race away with guns blazing. I was at their sentencing last month. One of the robbers took the opportunity to speak before the judge pronounced sentence. He told the judge they had robbed the bank because they didn?t have jobs. The judge did not seem sympathetic. He sentenced them each to two consecutive life sentences. Shortly thereafter, I wrote a column about technology and trucks. According to a story in the Wall Street Journal, the day is coming when trucks will drive themselves. People in the trucking industry say it is inevitable. Within a decade or so, truck drivers will be obsolete. There are currently 5.7 million truck drivers. Some of my regular critics expressed displeasure with the tone of the column. I am a liberal who doesn?t understand economics. Automation is a good thing. People have to learn new skills. And so on. A great many people have little sympathy for people whose jobs disappear. It?s odd. But other readers figured the problem goes deeper than political ideology. Pat B. is a conservative businessman. He wrote, ?Regarding the truck drivers, I think the bigger issue is how society is going to deal with nonproductive people vs. productive people. Automation will allow ?productive? people to be much, much more productive than the ?nonproductive? people. Theoretically, a very small segment of the population could produce almost everything. How will we deal with this?? How, indeed? It certainly does seem that the new economy will be defined by fewer and fewer jobs. Things seem so bleak that I can?t think of many friends who would advise their kids to follow in their footsteps. Would I advise my kids to look for work in a buggy whip factory? No, I would not. I?ve got lawyer friends who insist they would not want their kids to go into law. Professions and trades are disappearing. If college graduates are having a hard time ? and many are ? what about high school graduates? Factory work is being done overseas. Or else it has been automated. Willingness to work is no longer a ticket to ride. Gone are the days when a person without much education could find a job and support a family. My neighborhood in Chicago was filled with those men. St. Louis was filled with them, too. I say men because the workforce was predominantly male. One person could support a family. Most often, the husband worked and the wife stayed home with the kids. Many of these men were union men. Now unions are on the wane. People with jobs should feel lucky to have them. That is the new attitude. In the Great Depression, bank robbers were folk heroes. Desperate people lived vicariously through them, and they were willing to overlook the fact that many of the bank robbers were also killers. I hope we are past that, and I think we are. We get our moral compass these days from talking heads, and most of them preach law-and-order sermons. Besides, bank robbers in the Great Depression could get away. They could outrun the police. This was before car radios. Soon there will be drones. Fewer police jobs! So forget bank robbers. In a jobless economy, you can expect many people to try to get disability of one sort or another. It?s already happening. When people realize that life isn?t working out, when they lose hope, many opt for disability. It doesn?t pay much, but neither do a lot of dead-end jobs. Perhaps this will turn out to be the greatest cost of our wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Who can blame jobless veterans for trying to game the system? There I go with more soft-headed liberalism. As things slide from bad to worse, the haves tend to blame the have-nots. Remember Mitt Romney talking about the 47 percent who were takers. That counts folks on Social Security, disability, everything. So who among the nonproductive will be held in high esteem? Maybe the homeless. I see them sitting on the curbs around 14th and Locust streets. But they do not sit for long. They are expected to keep moving, always moving. So they do. From soup kitchens to shelters. The bad news is in: Chrysler dropped to fifth in the July volume rankings. Thanks to drooping passenger car sales on the Chrysler side and soaring light truck and Civic sales on the Honda side, the second-largest Japanese automaker came in with 1,337 more sales for the month. The minivan situation is getting worse, as well. The Dodge Grand Caravan is third in the segment in both July and year-to-date sales; the Town & Country is fourth. And the margin isn?t small: the segment-leading Odyssey outsold the Grand Caravan by 4,678 units in July and has an 11,678-unit lead for the first seven months of 2013. Of course, the world isn?t ending: Chrysler is still 161,417 calendar-year sales ahead of Honda through the end of July. What happened was Honda had a banner month in light truck sales, up 26.6% from last year, and saw a 16.4% increase in car sales, including a 29.6% increase in Civic deliveries, adding 24,495 sales to its July 2012 numbers while Chrysler truck sales grew by 10.2% and passenger car sales grew by 13.7% for an increase of 14,013 units. The Civic alone accounted for an extra 7,412 sales last month. While it would have been difficult to predict Honda?s surge, it should have been easy to predict Chrysler?s relative slump. Sales of Chrysler?s bread-and-butter sedans, the Chrysler 200 and Dodge Avenger, have tanked every July since at least 2010. Perhaps the fleet buyers are on vacation or there?s some other factor at work, but the pattern is there and this year the shortfall in 200 sales wiped out the gain in Avenger sales to produce a 1.5% deficit for the class compared to July 2012. Compounding the fall was the Charger, which posted a 19.3% drop from July 2012 and 47.0% decline in sales from May 2013, the model?s steepest month-over-month plunge in more than two years. It?s still 9.5% ahead of the January-July period of 2012, but it?s worth watching: the Charger seems to get tripped up in October, too. While there was an increase in year-over-year sales, deliveries of the Chrysler 300 continue to slow, as they have since last year. Chrysler has sold just three-quarters as many of its flagship through July as it did in the first seven months of 2012. In the chart below, sales of the five Chrysler Group sedans are tracked from June 2011 to the end of last month. The bold green line represents the total sales of Chrysler sedans and is not to scale; it?s there to show the overall monthly changes in volume in order to compare it to the individual models. For all of the improvements that have been made, the Charger and Chrysler 300 are going on their ninth year with what carbuyers see as essentially the same exterior design. Most of the competing models have been visually updated in that time, including the striking new Chevrolet Impala. There are superb new powertrains under the hoods of the 300 and Charger; it?s time to update the hoods, too. In fact, all of Chrysler?s mature sedan lines are in need of a major refresh in order to remain competitive. Perhaps Sergio Marchionne might want to consider using some of the money he is raising to buy out the UAW VEBA?s stake on product development. Chrysler is currently the cash cow but cash cows stop giving milk if they aren?t fed properly. On the bright side, if the trend holds true, next month should be better; the August rebound for Chrysler sedans is typically in the 30% range. The Jeep Cherokee can?t hit dealer lots fast enough. The discontinued Liberty was a major drag on Chrysler?s July results. Factoring out the Liberty, Chrysler?s July growth would have been a Detroit-leading 19.0% instead of the actual 11.1% that left it behind Ford and GM. On the other hand, the Jeep Grand Cherokee continues to deliver outstanding results; it outsold the Ford Explorer for a second consecutive month and this month it was joined by the Wrangler. Out of all the SUVs and crossovers on the market, only the Honda CR-V, Ford Escape, Toyota RAV4 and Nissan Rogue outsold the Jeeps in July and they?re all compacts. The Dodge Durango is another bright spot; from near-oblivion not too long ago, sales soared 87.7% in July, one of the largest improvements in the industry. Dodge?s larger SUV is now 38.3% ahead on the year. The Ram?s superior towing capacity seems to work on numbers, too; it?s definitely pulling some good ones. This year, Ram sales have grown faster than any full-size pickup except the Chevy Silverado. While the Ram?s performance is great, what makes it even better is the fact that both Ford and GM are more dependent on pickup sales than Chrysler. The Ram accounts for 19.2% of Chrysler sales while the Silverado and Sierra make up 23.5% of total General Motors sales. The F-Series pickup is almost Ford?s lifeline, bringing in 28.9% of combined Ford and Lincoln sales. The new Fiat 500L seems to be off to a good start. Unfortunately, it seems to be at the expense of the Cinquecento. Total Fiat sales grew just 2.0% in July and the 500L took 25.4% of them. Let?s hope the future brings more conquest and less cannibalism. Fiat still matches up well with BMW?s MINI brand, which is becoming so fragmented, many of the models don?t sell a thousand copies a month. While Chrysler?s overall sales gain in August likely won?t be as dramatic as the rebound in sedan sales, it should be enough for a 41st month of improved sales. It might be tight for Chrysler getting back to fourth place in the pecking order next month, but the folks in Auburn Hills should be there by the end of September. The Mopar HEMI Challenge returns to the NHRA U.S. Nationals running Labor Day weekend at Lucas Oil Raceway in Indianapolis, Indiana. The U.S. Nationals is the biggest, oldest, richest, and most prestigious drag race in the world and the final event of the 2013 Mello Yello NHRA regular season and the final qualifying event for the six-race Countdown to the Championship. Now in its 13th consecutive season, the Mopar HEMI Challenge is for Sportsman enthusiasts. It runs Thursday, August 29, and Friday, August 30 in the SS/AH Super Stock/Automatic-HEMI class and features 1968 HEMI-powered Dodge Darts and Plymouth Barracudas competing for a $15,000 first place award, the HEMI Challenge trophy and a new prize, a custom Mopar winner?s jacket. A new feature for this year is an added cash prize payout to the full 16-car field competing in the elimination rounds on Friday. ?We?re very proud of how popular our Mopar vehicles have remained since their introduction over 40 years ago, especially because of the passion we see from sportsman competitors and fans,? said Mopar CEO Pietro Gorlier. ?We can?t emphasize enough how much the NHRA Sportsman drag racers that compete in the Mopar HEMI Challenge are truly the backbone of the sport. In recognizing our roots and their dedication to the brand and drag racing, we?re always looking at ways to improve competition and support our sportsman racers. We?re doing that with a very strong Contingency Program, the Mopar HEMI Challenge, the addition of the Tom Hoover Sportsman Challenge, and our Sportsman Barbecues.? ?The Mopar HEMI Challenge has become an integral part of the world?s most prestigious drag race and the winners of this specialty event add to the lore of the race,? said NHRA President Tom Compton. ?To continue this partnership for 13 years shows the dedication and commitment Mopar has to the NHRA and to NHRA sportsman racing which is a key component in the sport of NHRA drag racing.? Jeg Coughlin, the four-time NHRA Pro Stock World Champion, who has already clinched a berth in the 2013 Countdown, won the Mopar HEMI Challenge in 2004. In anticipation of next year?s 50th anniversary of the 426 HEMI racing engine, Mopar created the ?Tom Hoover Sportsman Challenge? at the start of the 2013 season. The winner will be selected from the Sportsman Stock or Super Stock classes and will be based on the highest number of points at the wheel of a Chrysler Group vehicle in NHRA-sanctioned races nationwide during the season. The victor will take home a $4,260 purse, in honor of the 426 HEMI, a special commemorative Mopar trophy, and a custom Mopar winner?s jacket. All national event winners will continue to be eligible for the ?Mopar National Event Winner? decal to proudly display on their Chrysler vehicle. Chrysler? was on a roll as a 1984 approached, expanding the use of its new K-car platform? and architecture in the same way it had proliferated its rear wheel drive cars,? all based on torsion-bar front suspensions and similar rear suspensions and? powertrains. American buyers flocked to the new? cars, which? provided adequate acceleration due to their light bodies, better build quality? due to higher assembly standards, and interior space that was often similar to? the much bigger, older cars. The Annual Report previewed the various cars, pointing out ?the first? American-built, front-wheel-drive sports cars, the Dodge Daytona and Chrysler? Laser? Featuring Chrysler?s standard 2.2 liter engine with fuel injection and? optional turbocharging, the aerodynamic Laser and Daytona prove that high? performance and fuel economy can be built into the same automobile. High? technology is built into these cars, too, with a computer controlled engine and,? on some models, a fully electronic instrument cluster, an electronic navigator,? and a 22-function electronic monitoring system. These advanced sports cars are? being marketed aggressively to younger buyers.? Advertising was not neglected, by a long shot? thanks to J.P. Joans and his? Chrysler Literature Facebook group for the following scans. The Daytona ads? described the car?s features, though they required a lot of reading; of note? were the generous gas mileage estimates, using the EPA?s optimistic standards of? the time, of up to 24 city, 43 highway mpg. The Laser ad went directly against? the competition, albeit on cherry-picked terms, showing the Daytona beating the? formidable Nissan 300ZX in the slalom, the heavy Pontiac Trans Am in braking,? and the Camaro Z-28 in 0-50 times the text was more impressive than the images,? showing more cars beaten; a? popular car magazine later tested Daytona against both current and classic GM? and Ford muscle cars, showing it to be a real contender . Be advised, you should steer clear of this duo if possible. Lonnie is a vendor on the Lx Forum and he posts under whitehemi.? He has? rebuilt at least twenty modern Hemis.? He has 6.1 SRT cams reground to his? specifications and that is the cam that I have.? He recently rebuilt my engine,? doing the R&R in my garage. This pair is heading to Irwindale Drag strip to try getting into the ?Won and? Done? TV series.? I needed race fuel and nitrous, so on Wednesday morning I went? to Paradise Motorsports to get nitrous.? I knew that the owners and their son? were on the east coast, drag racing.? Would you believe that the owner and his? son are the only two people that can fill a nitrous bottle?? There are at least? eight other employees at this business.? They send me to an O?Reilley?s. O?Reilly?s does have some good parts people, but I get one the more typical? type; he can be outsmarted by a pencil.? He confirms that they do fill nitrous? bottles.? I asked, ?How much per pound?? He replied, ?Seven dollars.? I don?t really remember what I replied, but it wasn?t complimentary.? I must? have the stuff and don?t want to waste time tomorrow looking for it.? Another? plus is avoiding an internet search.? I agreed and got the bottles. I came back? in and Mr. Pencil said, ?Do you want to leave them, we don?t have anyone that? can fill them today.? The stuff wholesales for about one dollar per pound.? That is 600% profit.?? If I were Mr. O?Reilley, I would have someone there during every business hour? capable of filling nitrous bottles.? It doesn?t require a PhD. I go home and launch an internet search.? The number of forum threads netted? in the search is amazing.? I can?t trust that information, for all I know it? could Mr. Pencil posting.? I find a couple of businesses close to Tijuana, but? they will not answer their phones.? I am not driving that distance unless I know? that they have nitrous and can fill a bottle.? Late in the afternoon I find a? place in Temecula, they charge $4.21 per pound. The next day I picked up Lonnie at 11:00 am and left for Spankin Time to get? Shell URT race fuel.? We arrived and sort of like dogs, nothing can happen until? the sniffing is finished.? That?s done.? Adam owed Lonnie some money so he wrote? him a check.? The institution that Adam uses is just a couple of blocks away.?? Adam told Lonnie, ?Don?t let them rip you for $25,? and told him where there is? a sign advising the charge is only $5. Lonnie went to cash the check while I stayed to get the fuel; I asked Adam? how he makes the fuel pump keep running to empty the car?s fuel tank.? He sold? me three switches that replace relays, so I should be able to dump the pump gas? into cans when I get to the track and then run 100% race fuel.? Another one of? the switches should cause my fans to run with the key off, reducing cool down? time between runs. Lonnie came back with the check; the institution has cleverly replaced the? sign advising $5 with one reading $25.? I don?t understand, Adam?s account is? there, the money is there, and they charge $25 to cash his check. We go to an In-N-Out.? I thought the McDonald?s on Camp Pendleton was busy,? but you can?t buy a parking spot here.? We opted for the drive through.?? The water temperature began to creep up.? Lonnie turned the A/C off, the? temperature began to fall.? I know something is not right because a few weeks? back I sat for an hour with the A/C on and the air temperature was 15 degrees? hotter. We got back on the freeway heading to Irwindale with the A/C on.? The water? temperature returns to normal.? We didn?t finish the burgers before the low fuel? alert comes on.? Then another chime WTF?? Lonnie says, ?Battery light.? I told Lonnie the secret code for breaking into the Electronic Vehicle? Information Center EVIC .? The voltage was reading mid to low 12s.? A/C went? off to conserve battery power. I said, ?Bad alternator.? Lonnie said, ?Bad battery.? We went to an Auto Zone.? A young lady tested the battery/alternator and? eventually decided we had a bad alternator.? The store had an alternator and? tools.? We are still twenty miles from the track.? Neither Lonnie nor the young? lady think we can make it to the track with the bad alternator.? If we could? have made it to the track we might have found some shade and we have other? things to do while the engine cools. Oh yeah, the engine is hot.? Lonnie ruined his favorite shirt, but we got it? changed fairly quickly.? Only two third degree burns each. Back on the road, A/C on maximum, but two and a half miles from the track, we? ran out of gas.? We put the race fuel in and finally got to the track far later? than planned.? Doug and Andr? were already there.? The ?Won and Done? guys were? incredibly busy.? Andr? said that earlier in the day they were worried about? having enough cars. In our hurry mode I forget to install the race tune. Still, I got? a personal? best of 60? in 1.649, and 7.383 seconds for the eight mile.? My trap speed was? 94.30 mph.? The ET equates to a 11.54 quarter mile. This video is actually from? a different race, but you get the idea? it?s still Ray. The air temperature is coming down, and this reduces the pressure inside the? nitrous bottle.? I turned the bottle heater on.? The line I was in was moving,? and I thought I would run very soon.? When I get to about ten cars from the? front a track official puts a red pole in front of me.? More bad luck. I forgot that I had turned the heater on.? Someone got hurt, with the? ambulance taking them to a hospital.? All racing must cease until the ambulance? returns.? The ambulance returns and the noise and smoke begin again.? I am? convinced if something makes a lot of noise and stinks men, are attracted to it.? Smoke is icing on the cake. The official removed the red pole, and I wasted no time getting to the front? of the line.? What lines are selected to pull cars from is a total mystery.?? Suddenly I remembered the heater, went to the car, and switched it off.? The? pressure was well into the red zone; the pressure prevented the purge solenoid? from opening.? We have to manually open the system to reduce pressure.? During? this panic driven exercise, the bottle was turned off, and I forgot to open the? bottle valve before the run. On the last run I was running very rich because I was still spraying the? required amount of gas, but with no nitrous.? The other car was a Mercedes? sedan, and I beat him by 1.92 seconds.? The car is boring without nitrous. After the wheels were changed, everything was loaded and we were washed up.?? Lonnie discovered that the lower radiator hose is leaking.? Not just an? occasional drip, a steady stream.? A lot of what we have loaded has to come back? out to get to the few tools that I have.? We borrowed a 3/8? ratchet from the? lemonade stand and also got water from them.? Todd, Lonnie?s son, and his? girlfriend showed up before I make the last pass and he helped with the radiator? hose.? Lonnie said, ?That clamp is not on straight.? Todd replied very dryly, ?and who put that clamp on last?? We had barely got onto the freeway heading home and the guy two cars ahead of? us stops in the slow lane.? We later found out he lost a wheel.? I guess he is? having a bad day too. Vehicles in all other lanes were running 70 to 80 mph.? The SRT makes this? merge a little easier. I-15 is having night time repairs and we got into a fifteen-mile traffic jam.? Thirteen hours of non-stop fun. Isn?t it ironic? The first time I had the ability to empty the fuel tank of? pump gas there was no need to do it.? I had brought an empty gas can for that? purpose. Editor?s note: the video was shot at Barona, but you get the idea. Reprinted with permission from The Chrysler Canada? Story, copyright ? 2001 James Mays The? Chrysler Canada story has multiple beginnings.? First there was Walter Percival? Chrysler himself, a railroad man who learned the automobile industry at General? Motors under Charles Nash and GM?s founder, William Billy Durant.? The second? beginning of the corporate empire was the Maxwell and Chalmers companies which? were rescued from ruin by Chrysler?s astute business acumen.? The third? beginning of Chrysler?s story is that of the Dodge brothers, Horace and? John. The Dodge family came from tough if dour New England stock. Grandfather? Ezekiel made the long trek from Massachusetts to Niles, Michigan in the 1830s in? search of a better life. The riverside village had scarcely a dozen dwellings,? but as a machinist he found work on the docks.? He passed his extensive skills? on to his sons Daniel and Caleb.? Daniel Dodge had two children with his first? wife?who died?and three with his second wife.? The children from the second? marriage were Della, John, and Horace. John and Horace, like the rest of the family, were raised as strict? Methodists.? They were expected to excel in every way.? After school, the? redheaded brothers worked in the family machine shop where they became? well-schooled in the family trade.? Niles was not a great centre of commerce and? the family moved on, eventually arriving in Detroit, not yet known as Motor? City; Detroit was principally a trans-shipment point for rail and water-bound? freight.? It was 1886 when they arrived, and?? John was twenty-two while Horace? was eighteen.? They insisted on being hired as a team, and their vast work? experience made them worth their weight on gold. John married Ivy Hawkins, a Canadian, a decade later.? Horace married a? Scottish woman.? Not wanting to waste time, they took the boat to Windsor,? Ontario, were married at lunch hour, and went back to work.? The both started? families, but their true love was inventing things when they weren?t working in? the foundry.? The boys ate lunch together every day and worked long into the? night inventing things. The? brothers tinkered with bicycles.? Horace invented an advanced dirt-resistant? ball bearing and they set up shop in Windsor, Ontario in 1897, building Evans & Dodge bicycles on Ouellette Avenue.? Two years later, the company was? purchased by National Cycle of Toronto. In one of the only times the brothers were ever separated in their lives,? Horace stayed in Windsor to look after the business and John moved to Hamilton,? Ontario to manage another bicycle factory that National had acquired.? A year? later there was another takeover and the Dodge brothers found themselves? unemployed, but with $7,500 in cash and nice royalties for the ball bearing. The brothers bought a building and opened a machine shop in Detroit.?? Business was good; they stood head and shoulders above other machine shops in? quality.? Although their trade was mostly in railroad equipment, the horseless? carriage was making its debut, and Ransom Olds placed an order for engines.? He? was so pleased with the high quality of work that he had the Dodge brothers? build 3,000 transmissions for his Oldsmobile.? They had to expand immediately.?? At the same time, the bicycle company in Canada failed.? In lieu of stock and? royalties, the brothers took the plants? machines? and moved them to Detroit.?? They were going to need them. Only 11,000 cars were built in the US in 1903, but a good 30% of them were? Oldsmobiles.? Thanks to Ransom Olds, the Dodge brothers were already one of the? largest auto parts suppliers in the country. Next to call on the brothers was Henry Ford.? The man from Dearborn had a bad? reputation in Detroit, having already failed with two automobile companies.? The? brothers took a chance on him because he had impeccable backing from a banker,? but Ford was given only five days to pay bills in full instead of the customary? thirty.? The Dodge brothers would build entire undercarriages in a new plant.??? Ford would supply the body, tires and radiators. Soon the troubled Ford company? needed more capital and the Dodge brothers became shareholders, more to protect? their investment than anything else. Dealing with Henry Ford was quirky on good days.? He feared redheads and? believed that seeing one brought bad luck unless he immediately spied a white? horse.? Nonetheless they did business together and business boomed.? A year? later John and Horace were able to recoup the entire $162,000 they had invested? in the shaky company.? The brothers were content to expand their plants, supply? parts to one and all, and let the money pile up. The pair grew as eccentric as they were wealthy, wearing identically tailored? suits and refusing to read mail that wasn?t addressed to ?the Dodge Brothers.??? They raced boats and got into local politics.?? By 1913 the brothers were worth? a cool $50 million.? The Ford Motor Company alone was contributing $10 million? of that to John and Horace?s ledgers, and the mega-hit of the century, the?? Model T, was in its infancy. The brothers built a new, extra-large plant in 1910.? Five thousand men? worked within its walls, with an annual payroll in excess of $6 million. The? design was unusual; it had multiple floors, and the assembly line would? eventually become quite complex, moving from floor to floor. John and Horace had grown up on factory floors; they made sure their? employees were well cared for.? The plant included a fully staffed medical? clinic, a ?welfare department? which looked after workers? social needs, and a? machine shop called ?the Playpen? where men could fix or invent things after? hours. Employees were served huge platters of? monstrous sandwiches and pitchers? of beer at lunch hours, daily, all paid for by the company.? In the horrendous? heat of summer, beer was served in the afternoons in the foundry and forge so? that the workers might slake their thirst. All was not well, though, in Motor City.? Henry Ford wanted all the profits? from the Ford Motor Company for himself and tried to cut out the Dodge brothers? in a serious of legal maneuvers.? They all wound up in court, where the judge? ruled against Ford;? John and Horace walked away from Ford with a cool $25? million in cash. John? said, ?Someday, people who own a Ford are going to want an automobile.?? Now was? the perfect time. The brothers had the facility and the know-how to build a car? named after themselves.? The Dodge Brothers trademark was intertwining Greek? deltas, standing for the letter ?D,? and later mistaken for a Star of David.? Incorporated in June of 1914, every penny of the $5 million worth of stock was? owned by the two brothers. As soon as the news broke some 22,000 people rushed? to apply for Dodge Brothers dealerships. When the Dodge Brothers? automobile entered the market in 1914, it was one of? 250 new cars.? The brothers? sterling reputation caused Dodge Brothers to rise? like cream to the top of the pail.? Dodge Brothers would be the fourth-best? selling car in the United States in its first full year on the market. The? plant tripled in size for the new job.? John took one of the new cars and? smashed it into a brick wall at twenty miles an hour to study the results.? It? was a superior vehicle, with a four-cylinder L-head engine rated at 35? horsepower.? Horace had looked after the engine design.? It had a twelve-volt? electrical system?rare for its day?and an electric starter.? The all-steel body? was designed by the Budd company.? The massive, 2,000-pound cars were finished? in black paint and stood seven feet from the ground. Priced at $785, Dodge Brothers nearly double the price of Henry?s Model T,? but the men were wise enough to leave the low-priced field to Ford?? The word? spread like a prairie grass fire that the Dodge Brothers? car was as dependable? as the brothers were honest. In 1917, Dodge Brothers cars went on sale in Canada as imported vehicles.??? Five years later, Dodge Brothers was the third best selling brand of automobile,? behind Ford and the combined output of General Motors. Then tragedy? struck.? While in New York City for the unveiling of the 1920 automobiles, John? became ill.? Horace addressed the assembled dealer body alone, then hurried to? his brother?s bedside.? John died several days later.? Horace, lost without his? brother, went into decline and died in December of the same year at his winter? home in Florida. The brothers left behind complicated wills which left their families with? limited monthly allowances.? It didn?t take long for the widows to sell Dodge? Brothers through competitive bidding.? The winner was Dillon Read & Company,? which paid $146 million for the right to manufacture Dodge Brothers cars.? That? sale gave Anna Dodge a daily income of $40,000. Dillon Read was better at banking than manufacturing and they tried to move? the Dodge Brothers upscale, pricing cars as high as $2,000.? People didn?t buy.?? By 1928, the company was nearly broke and there wasn?t enough cash in the kitty? to meet the next payroll for the 20,000 workers.? Dodge Brothers was up for? sale.? Enter Walter P. Chrysler. The Acustar steering column in most 1990 to 1996 Chrysler-built vehicles is? easy to identify: the square pushbutton for the hazard flashers is near the? middle of the top of the square plastic housing. The ignition lock has a chrome? or black receptacle for the ignition key, surrounded by a transparent ?halo?? ring for lighting. Generally this is a reliable column, reasonably well? designed, but there is a relatively weak point; whether by abuse attempted? theft of the car or by? wear, or by simple random luck, the ignition lock can come apart from the switch? and spin freely. If you?re lucky, this means you must fiddle with the key? receptacle to line it up with the switch before you can insert, operate, or? remove the key. If you?re not so lucky, it means you?re either not going? anywhere? or you?re leaving your keys dangling from the column. The problem is a small metal pin that protrudes outward from the side of the? lock cylinder, anchoring it to the ignition switch. Sometimes the pin simply? falls out and gets lost, leaving the lock cylinder free to shift and drift? little by little until it pops out. But even if the pin stays put, the part it? protrudes outward into is made of plastic. A thief with a slide-hammer will? quickly break that plastic in the process of yanking the lock. The repair in? both cases is the same, and it?s not difficult, but you will need one special? tool: a T-20 tamperproof Torx driver or bit. What makes it ?tamperproof? is the? hole in the center of the drive star, meant? to fit over a matching round nub in the center of the screw head, which prevents? use of a Torx T-20 driver. Tamperproof T-20 drivers or bits are easily available? at a well-stocked tool, hardware, or auto parts store, defeating any real? tamper-proofing, but there we are. The steering column?s square plastic housing is two pieces: upper and lower.? Three screws hold housing halves onto the column; one of them is the first? tamperproof T-20 screw you?ll encounter. It?s in the middle of the bottom? housing. Unscrew it, then insert a long slim driver into the two tunnels close? behind the steering wheel?Philips, regular Torx T-15, or Allen hex depending on? when and where your car was built?to remove the other two screws. Then remove the column tilt lever, if equipped. It simply unscrews?usually by? hand, but there are flats on the lever shaft if yours is extra tight and needs? persuasion with a wrench or pair of pliers. Now? you can gently but firmly grasp the upper and lower housing halves and pull them? apart, exposing the inner works. You?ll see the multifunction switch?turn? signal, windshield? wiper, headlamp? high/low beam, and hazard flasher?on the left.? If you need to replace it, now?s? a fine time; you?ll need a tamperproof T-20 Torx driver with a slim shaft? because clearance to the screw heads is very tight. On the right you?ll see the? ignition switch, its light halo, and the ignition lock. That?s where we?re? focusing in this article. The ignition lock is held to the column with tamperproof T-20 Torx screws.? When you?re removing or installing screws in the steering column, work? deliberately and keep your eyes on what you?re doing. There?s a lot of pot metal? involved, and it?s easy to break or? cross-thread a screw. That?ll really spoil your day, so pay attention. Perhaps it?s just a coincidence that you can almost spell ?ignition? using? letters taken from the word ?incognito.? Or perhaps it?s because of this Chrysler ignition? lock repair kit, part number K4411 456. It doesn?t appear in any Chrysler parts? catalogue, doesn?t come up as a valid part number in a part number search,? there?s no useful information to be had by a Google search, and yet?here it is,? genuine packaging and all: I obtained this from a well-stocked local locksmith shop. I?d gone in asking? for a price on a new lock cylinder keyed to match my existing car key?who wants? to carry around two keys instead of just one??but when he asked what the trouble? was with my lock cylinder and I told him, he put this kit on the counter and? said it would effect a good and durable repair for much less money than a new? cylinder and a rekey job. Seems this kit came with service replacement lock? cylinders for a while, when cars with this? column were new enough to be on the high-theft list, and since it wasn?t always? needed, a good locksmith shop is likely to have a pile of them. The? repair kit consists of a stamped steel bracket and two special screws. The? bracket gets placed on the ignition switch body as shown. See that the ignition? lock is fully seated in the ignition switch, then install the short screw from? the kit so it will will protrude into the ignition lock cylinder, holding it in? place as a functional replacement for the missing pin. You may be tempted to? tighten the screw all the way tightly. Don?t; if you do, it?ll bind the ignition? lock and prevent it turning easily. Tighten it just snug, then back it off? slightly. There?ll be plenty of screw engagement length with the lock cylinder,? which won?t go anywhere, and there?ll be no binding. The other long screw from the kit holds the ignition switch to the column.? It?s longer than the original screw you removed, to work with the extra? thickness created by the metal bracket. These screws that hold the ignition? switch and lock assembly to the column must be tightened securely, but be? careful not to break them. ? While doing this repair, it?s not a bad idea to replace the halo light bulb.? Originally this is a tiny incandescent bulb #37 that works fine. Instead, I used? a green ?LED bulb? that fit directly? in the socket. ?LED bulbs? are unsafe and illegal to use in any of a car?s? exterior lights; the amounts and distributions of light are different enough? that exterior lights can?t work effectively or legally when fitted with any kind? of LED ?bulb.? But there?s no such safety concern with interior illumination. I? wanted to see if the ignition halo light delay?a thermal bimetallic unit just? like Chrysler has been using since the 1960s?would still work with it, and it? does. The halo light is now a brighter, more pleasing color of green. Assembly is the reverse of disassembly. Enjoy! Editor?s note: Acustar was Chrysler?s parts subsidiary, split off in 1987.? Disclaimer: The information provided in this and? linked pages are accurate, to the best of our knowledge, but we are not? necessarily experts or authorities on the subject matter. Neither the author nor? Allpar.com is to be held responsible for the use of the information or implied? advice by the reader or anyother party. This page is offered ?AS IS? and without? warranties of any kind. If you use this page, you release the author and Allpar,? LLC from any liability whatsoever. I? cannot make any claim to accuracy for the materials that I have used to? make these articles. In some cases, the journals go back 50 years. ??Curtis? Redgap Summer 1959 was hot, and awful for sales. There was no real sense of? leadership at Chrysler Corporation. Each Division sailed along more or less like? it was a captain of its own ship. Things promised had gone awry, and things that? didn?t need to happen were about to explode. Dealers were getting nervous. They could see that the handwriting was getting? pretty big on the wall, and Chrysler needed to do something, and something in a? big way. ?Poor quality control? had been tagged onto anything that Chrysler? built. It would take many years to shake it off. A lot of that problem could? be blamed directly on marketing. Dad had been flying around, visiting dealers, OEM suppliers, truckers, and? vendors of aftermarket parts. He was not pleased with some of the things he was? finding out. Politically, he told us, he had the fuse to tons of TNT. It? appeared that many of the top Chrysler brass had arrangements with vendors;? instead of the usual maximum fail rate of 4%, some suppliers were getting top? bucks for junk that was failing at 20% or higher! Warranty claims were through? the roof on things like windshield wiper motors, switches, knobs, cigarette? lighters and ash trays. He had not been intending to find out any of this. He had been talking with? people to drum up support for letting Plymouth go, as per the agreement that the? board had made back in 1954. The stuff that my Dad had learned kept him awake on more than one occasion.? He even contemplated selling out to his General Manager a couple of times.? However, some of the things he saw that were going to happen convinced him that? Chrysler was moving to correct things, and that quality was the top priority. Starting? in 1957, Dad went on several trips to conferences where the promise of putting? Plymouth back into its own division, with its own dealerships, was openly? discussed. The politics were hot and heavy; no one wanted to give up any turf. There were close to 700 open franchises. It would have been a good chance to? start Plymouth on its own without hurting anyone else. The Board vacillated, and? the chance fizzled away. Plymouth was on the right track, holding third place for 1957 and 1958, and? it looked to be on track to hold third place for 1959. It was tough, though;? Dodge always held sway, and rest of the Divisions depended upon Dodge for their? engines, axles, and other major components. With the resurgence of Plymouth in 1957, some experimental Plymouth-only? stores were set up, scattered around the country, perhaps four or five of them.? That was a small bone being tossed to a large dog to keep it quiet while the? next move was planned. The promise that Plymouth would be set free after it had put itself back into? third place was mumbled for a couple of years. In the background, Dodge dealers? were playing hard, heavy, and fast with politics in the smoky back rooms. They? argued that it was their dealerships that ?made? Plymouth. Of course, most of? the Dodge dealers would never have survived the 1930s depression if they hadn?t? had Plymouth cars to sell. Members of the Dealers? Association that leaned towards putting Plymouth out? on its own argued that Pontiac never cried about Chevrolet being a separate? make. They also pointed at Mercury, which was actually a Ford; Mercury dealers? never cried for Fords in their showrooms! Some? Dodge dealers were adamantly opposed to letting Plymouth go. They cried that? they needed Plymouth, or a car like it, to ?lead? customers in. Most Dodge? dealers hoped that they only had to sell a customer one Plymouth, because? of the lower markups. When that customer came back in for their next new car,? the dealers moved him right into a Dodge, which paid them better. I am sure K.T. Keller would have gone along with that, if it? had become an outright game plan. More likely, it was a smooth move by some? elements to keep the price niche for Dodge, while putting Plymouth slowly into? retirement. Many car dealers had their income figured out to the dime.? They knew the? future in marketing the mid-sized cars.? Dodge was left with nowhere to go. Some smart people ??big names ??had taken a good look at the? penetration levels in the price niches. It was obvious to them that Chrysler?s? marketing, so focused three years ago, had fallen flat on its face. The death? throes of DeSoto had been heard far and wide, yet Chrysler went on insisting? that nothing was out of the ordinary. Meanwhile, a critical wound for Plymouth was being wrought in the back rooms,? and no one said anything. What truly upset Dad was the plans he saw in 1958, marked ?experimental,? for? a Plymouth-sized, Plymouth-priced Dodge car. He began a quest to get that? experiment killed, or to get Plymouth out on its own. Dad just couldn?t see how? the Board could let it happen. He had plenty of evidence of collusions with? outside suppliers, with the production numbers of failed parts from those same? suppliers, but he didn?t have enough stuff to be able to stop the? Plymouth-kicking Dodge. Whenever he started to get close to the source to the rumors of that Dodge,? it always turned back around that it was a deal made by the board to Dodge in? exchange for letting Plymouth compete on its own. They said that, after all, the? new small car, Valiant, was going to be sold by Plymouth dealers. There was a contingent of vociferous and contentious Dodge dealers. Yes,? horrors of horrors, car dealers that openly flaunted themselves. The public? accepted it, and they made money and sold a whole lot of Dodges. When they? spoke, everyone listened. This group may have lead the board down the primrose? path. It would explain why the board approved huge sums of money in design,? production, and tooling for a new small Dodge car, rather than cutting Plymouth? loose to have their own outlets. Once again the mentality had set in that? Plymouth would go on forever, like some sort of self fulfilling entity. The decision to produce the 1960 Dodge Dart, the Plymouth-sized Dodge, had to? have been made in 1957; it took three years of design and development to get a? car to the production line even one so clearly based on an existing car . Yet,? 1957 was the year that Plymouth had come charging back, hard! How Dodge? accomplished it has never been revealed in any history that I know of. K.T.? Keller had run Dodge, though see sidebar , as had L.L. ?Tex? Colbert? ??president of Chrysler from 1950 to 1960, and from 1946 to 1951, head of? the Dodge Division. Since the board was not forthcoming in its intentions, most dealers thought? that, with the creation of a Plymouth-sized car for Dodge, and the introduction? of a small car for the independent Plymouth stores to sell, the move to put? Plymouth into its own stores was moving along. Dad? went to the big dealer show at Detroit in August of 1959. The following? announcements were made: It stunned a great many dealers; over 300 franchises quit right on the spot.? This many at once was unprecedented. Dad was so stunned that he left that very night and came home.? All the? things he had been arguing for the past two years were for nothing.? They had? bastardized his concepts, and let Dodge, again, run the show.? Poor Plymouth had? to struggle along with whatever Dodge handed it. The marketing dolts even attempted to cut off their direct sales outlets from? selling Plymouth and Dodge together!? Dad was one of the first who was informed.? He knew that his agreement covered just such a contingency, but he had to start? a lawsuit to stop the foolishness. I still do not understand the Chrysler Corporation board?s reasoning. They? let Dodge go on its own, but only when it had a Plymouth-sized car of its own. I? believe that they made a conscious decision to make Dodge the biggest division.? Otherwise, why would they have given the Plymouth size car to Dodge? Supposedly, Plymouth was moving with a new car in a new market.? It wasn?t? that way in August 1959, though. On October 9, 1959, the new models rolled out nationwide.? I suppose it was a? shock for some people to head down to their local Dodge dealership, and find no? Plymouths there ??but Dodge dealers had their Plymouth-sized car in? production in the summer of 1959, so the Dodge Dart was there to take the? Plymouth?s place. It was a deliberate move on Plymouth.? After 1960, things could never be the? same. It was a conniving thrust to put Dodge into the low-priced niche that it? had to be in to survive, displacing Plymouth.? After over 30 years at the helm,? K.T. Keller was going to insure Dodge?s survival, no matter what. Editor?s note: The decision not to set Plymouth on its own at? this point was odd, because with just the Valiant and one ?regular sized?? Plymouth, the brand would have done well and supported independent dealerships.? Indeed, even with just the Valiant and its variants Barracuda, wagon ,? eventually adding modified small cars from SIMCA and Rootes, Plymouth would have? been a success. But for 1960, Valiant was launched as a brand in itself,? ignoring the long-standing Plymouth. It was an odd decision ??creating a? new brand while letting the existing brand with the highest sales volume fail. We make a lot of assumptions about people based on the cars they drive. A driver in a new Mercedes-Benz has money. The person behind the wheel of a new Ford Fiesta may be middle or working class. But there?s one auto brand that has managed to attract people across the wealth divide. Car data shows that in new auto sales, Jeep does equally well among people who are making less than ten-thousand dollars a year and those who make over half a million. The Orange County Dirt Devils, an off-roading group that volunteers on weekends to help clean up trails in the San Bernardino National Forest, seems to exemplify the data. Castulo Olivas, a member of the group who works in air conditioning, says that aside from the fact that they all drive Jeeps, he doesn?t have a lot in common with many of the people in the group. ?I know one guy is a pipeline inspector,? Olivas said. ?Another guy works in a computer department, does IT. One person does medical sales. You know ? heart valves and stuff.?They have professions that require college and people that just work in a gas station. It doesn?t matter.? If you look at car data based on income, it is stark. There are cars that rich people buy, cars that the middle class buys, and cars that poor people buy. But everyone buys Jeep. Jesse Toprak, an analyst for TrueCar.com says Jeep doesn?t have a lot of models, but it has them at both ends of the price spectrum ? from $50,000 to less than $20,000. ?You can literally lease some of these vehicles for under $300 a month,? Toprak said. ?In many cases, if you live in a big city, your mass transit costs might be more than that.?