We have a name for Prince William and Kate Middleton's newborn prince! The baby will be known as His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge, Clarence House tweeted today, and the full name is George Alexander Louis. The baby shares one name with his father, Prince William, whose full name is William Arthur Philip Louis. George is an important name in the Windsor family, as it was the name of Queen Elizabeth II's father, King George VI, and grandfather King George V. It was also the favorite among bet makers. When he ascends to the throne one day, the newest British royal will presumably be King George VII. Princess Kate Shines Light on Fostering 4 hours ago Kate Middleton's Baby Bump Is More Visible Than Ever 7 minutes ago Royal Report: Big Change Lies Ahead in Princess Kate's 33rd Year 4 hours ago Princess Kate Is Positively Glowing as She Spends Time With Cute Kids 1 day ago You Can Officially Follow Will, Kate, and Harry on Twitter! 2 days ago Pregnant Kate Middleton Kicks Off Her Busy Week With a Shopping Spree 2 days ago Kate Middleton's Top 13 Un-Princess-y Beauty Moments 6 days ago 9 Rules for Prince Harry, Prince William and Princess Kate to Follow Now That They're on Twitter 2 days ago Royal Report: Big Change Lies Ahead in Princess Kate's 33rd Year 4 hours ago The Most Hilarious Things People Are Tweeting to Prince William and Kate 2 days ago You Can Officially Follow Will, Kate, and Harry on Twitter! 2 days ago Scandals That Will Change the Way You Think About the Royals 1 week ago Look Back at the Year in British Royals 3 weeks ago Will and Kate's Cutest Snaps of the Year 3 weeks ago Kate Middleton, Prince William Join Royal Family for Sandringham Christmas Service: Where Were Prince George and Camilla? 3 weeks ago Kate Middleton's Crowning Maternity Style Moments 12/04/14 Kate Middleton's Maternity Style Moments Just Keep Getting Better 11/10/14 How Does Kate's Current Pregnancy Stack Up Against Her First One? 10/21/14 Everything You Need to Know About the New Royal Baby 10/20/14 When Is the Second Royal Baby Due? 10/20/14 Pregnant Celebrities' 128 Best Maternity Looks 10/17/14 OMFGorgeous: Kate Middleton?s Latest Maternity Look 5 hours ago Kate Middleton's Baby Bump Is More Visible Than Ever 7 minutes ago Royal Report: Big Change Lies Ahead in Princess Kate's 33rd Year 4 hours ago Kate Middleton Shines Brightest in Her Signature Look 8 hours ago Princess Kate Is Positively Glowing as She Spends Time With Cute Kids 1 day ago Kate Middleton's Showing Off Her Stylish Baby Bump ??on Instagram! 1 day ago The Most Hilarious Things People Are Tweeting to Prince William and Kate 2 days ago What Fabulous Gifts Did Prince George Receive in 2014? 2 days ago Royal Report: Big Change Lies Ahead in Princess Kate's 33rd Year 4 hours ago Look Back at the Year in British Royals 3 weeks ago Prince George's 14 Most Adorable Moments From 2014 3 weeks ago All the Times Prince George Was Unimpressed 3 weeks ago Prince George Couldn't Be Cuter in His New Holiday Pictures 12/15/14 Royal Report: Inside Kate and William's Babymoon ??With George! 11/05/14