CAIRO ? Taxi driver Hamdy Ghonim had high hopes when he voted for Mohammed Morsi last year. But now he laments that life hasn't improved under the Egyptian president. He's done nothing for the country, and the situation is getting worse, said Ghonim, who lives in Egypt's capital. There are problems with water, problems with electricity, problems with gasoline, prices are high ? all of this is because of the new system. Since Morsi was voted in as the nation's first democratically elected leader last year, Egypt's political and economic stability have further deteriorated. Morsi's political camp defends the president's efforts but Morsi's actions ? or lack thereof ? have angered many Egyptians and deepened political divisions that this week led to fresh outbursts of violence. On Sunday, Morsi's opponents will demonstrate to demand that the leader resign and call for an early presidential election. As tensions builds, thousands of supporters and opponents of the embattled Islamist president held rival sit-ins Saturday on the eve of Morsi's inauguration. The last year under Morsi has been an abysmal failure, said Tarek Radwan, associate director for research at the Atlantic Council's Rafik Hariri Center for the Middle East, in Washington, D.C. Morsi has made some major mistakes throughout the course of his presidency. Several people died in clashes between pro and anti-Morsi political camps over the past week, including American college student, Andrew Pochter, 21, killed in the coastal city of Alexandria on Friday. Cairo's U.S. Embassy issued a travel warning urging U.S. citizens to defer non-essential travel to Egypt. Some expect violence to swell out of control during mass demonstrations against Morsi on Sunday ? the one-year anniversary of his inauguration. Morsi comes from the 85-year-old Muslim Brotherhood, which has succeeded in every election since the uprising that ousted Hosni Mubarak in 2011. An engineer who studied in the United States, Morsi won the presidential poll with 52% of the vote over his opponent Ahmed Shafiq, a former air force commander. After he was sworn into office on June 30 last year, Morsi wriggled control of the state away from the military, which governed Egypt in the interim period, by pushing leading generals into retirement and granting himself executive and legislative powers. Some outside of Morsi's political faction hoped for the best despite skepticism over Morsi's abilities and intentions. But cautious optimism shifted to outright agitation when Morsi issued a constitutional declaration that gave him authority over the nation's judiciary in November. Everything that's happened since then has created this highly charged, highly polarized environment that we're seeing today, Radwan said. Morsi said the November constitutional decree was essential to protect democracy and elected institutions. But anger boiled over as tens of thousands of protesters poured into Egypt's streets. Weeks later, a new constitution drafted by a contested Islamist-dominated body passed in a nationwide referendum. Rights groups criticized the document for failing to protect freedom of speech and rights of women and minorities. But Morsi's political camp champions the fact that the constitution is, at least, complete. We know some articles might be modified, but we have finished the constitution, said Mohamed El Mekkawi, an advisor to Egypt's finance minister and a member of the Brotherhood's political wing ? the Freedom and Justice Party. Mekkawi said another achievement of Morsi's first year of rule is that the administration now consists of civilians rather than officials with military backgrounds. He champions Morsi for boosting relations with countries such as China, Russia and Brazil, and boasts that Morsi secured low-interest loans from countries in the region while an International Monetary Fund loan hangs in limbo. The efforts, however, have not prevented support for Morsi from dwindling. The president's approval rating dropped precipitously over the past 12 months, from a high of 79% last fall to 32% in June, according to the Egyptian Center for Public Opinion Research Baseera . The core problem, analyst and citizens say, is that life here hasn't improved. The economy continues to decline, and the government has failed to boost tourism and attract foreign investment. Costs of food have increased. Unemployment is rising, topping 13%. Citizens complain of fuel shortages, evident in long gas station lines. And life in the summer is aggravated by perpetual power cuts across the country. Pretty much anything related to public administration, in general, has worsened, said Ziad Akl, senior researcher at the Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo. The crux of the state is collapsing. Morsi's critics complain of everything from foreign policy blunders to government power grabs that indicate the Brotherhood seeks to monopolize power and elbow out their opponents. He only wants to serve his political bloc, they say, and is simply putting new faces on an old system of governing that is not different from Mubarak's era. Security concerns also run high, prompting many households to possess arms, and minority groups are particularly disturbed by lack of police protection. In a distressing case last week, four Shiite Egyptian Muslims ? who comprise just a sliver of the nation's population ? were murdered by a mob near the capital without any police interference for the three-hour period. More often, Coptic Christians are subject to violence, facing more attacks now than they did under Mubarak. In addition, some Christians have been hauled into court for insulting Islam while still other Christians face an enormous storm of threats coming from Islamist groups, said Youssef Sidhom, editor in chief of Watani, a Christian weekly newspaper. Coptic Christians feel things are getting worse without doubt, Sidhom said. Heba Morayef of Human Rights Watch's Cairo office said Morsi's overall approach shows a failure to prioritize a human rights agenda. While some problems were inherited from Mubarak and the military council, there has been no improvement in legal reforms or institutions, which is counterproductive and in turn has empowered an abusive security sector, she said. The Brotherhood's Mekkawi asserts that under Morsi, people are free to form political parties regardless of what ideology they support and can freely voice dissent in demonstrations. But a recent spike in the number of criminal defamation cases against media figures has created a chilling effect, Morayef said. There is a marked and material deterioration in protection of freedom of expression under Morsi, she added. In a televised speech Wednesday night, Morsi defended his first year and vowed to initiate rapid and quick reforms. And the president still has a loyal base of support that staged rallies since mid-June in support of the president. But tension is seething as polarization runs deep, leading many to anticipate more violence at the opposition rallies on Sunday. For weeks protest organizers have gathered millions of signatures to show their distaste of Morsi for failing to achieve the revolution's goals: freedom, social justice and dignity.. Morsi did not work toward any of these big labels, analyst Akl said. But Mekkawi said Morsi is dealing with problems any new leader would face, including lack of funds to create jobs due to debt created under Mubarak. Still he concedes that the government has made mistakes, chalking them up to lack of political experience. This is the first time this government practices ruling this country, Mekkawi said. We still have a lot of things to finish.