After former Egyptian leader Mohammed Morsi was ousted and replaced with interim President Adly Mansour last week, President Obama announced that the U.S. would not take sides in the Egyptian conflict. Comments from Facebook: OBAMA TAKES RIGHT STANCE? U.S. foreign policy has created many monsters, but Morsi and the situation in Egypt is not one of them. As far as staying out of it, U.S. taxpayers have a $1.3 billion annual investment in Egypt that precludes otherwise. ? Rich Barnes I am happy about Obama's decision to not take sides in Egypt. I am sick of the USA spending money to police and save the world. ? Lucinda DuPuis It seems Egypt, along with Syria, Libya and other countries in that part of the world, are going to be embroiled in civil wars for a long time. The USA has to find a way to avoid them altogether. They'll be occupied with killing each other for an eternity. After spending a lot of time in Egypt, I concluded that Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood were the country's worst issue. Democracy is never easy in any part of the world. After just celebrating our Fourth of July, let us not forget how tough it was for our young country at the start. We must allow the Egyptian people to make their choices and mistakes as well. Compared with some countries, it seems as though Egypt has a good shot at developing a functional democracy if given enough time. They have a lot of well-educated citizens and a history of being associated with countries that became models of democracy in the West. While Americans tend to be suspicious of other countries whose military institutions intervene in politics, the military in Egypt has a long and proud tradition that can be a stabilizing force. Letters to the Editor: President Obama has a difficult conundrum to deal with in Egypt. Stating that the U.S. won't take sides isn't enough. The democratically and legally elected president, Mohammed Morsi, has been deposed in a military coup. Although he was wildly unpopular among many of the Egyptian people, he had committed no crimes, and he was not tried by any court. He was simply not the person many thought he was. Democracy has been severely wounded. Should Obama give support to a new Egyptian government as it transitions or condemn the forcible removal of a duly elected president? A democracy cannot flourish if the legally elected president is subject to mob rule that defeats the basic core of democratic principles. For Obama, this is a political and moral challenge. Ken Derow; Swarthmore, Pa. In one way, Egypt is ahead of the U.S. Its people finally realized enough is enough. Ousted leader Mohammed Morsi came to power as Egypt's first democratically elected president by making promises it now seems he had no intention of keeping ? standard operating procedure for many Islamist leaders. First gain control by telling the people what they want to hear; then do what is really on your agenda after you are in power. President Obama created the same situation in the United States, but a largely gullible population has failed to acknowledge it. Obama made election promises he didn't keep to an adoring public. When are we going to realize enough is enough? Alan J. Winters; Bellaire, Texas