Royal couple leave hospital with their new son - video | UK news | The Guardian Close Skip to main content sign in subscribe search jobs more from the guardian: jobs change edition: switch to the UK edition switch to the AU edition US edition switch to the UK edition switch to the Australia edition The Guardian Winner of the Pulitzer prize home ? world ? UK europe americas asia middle east africa australia home US world selected opinion sports soccer tech arts lifestyle fashion business money travel environment browse all sections close The Duchess of Cambridge Royal couple leave hospital with their baby son - video Sorry, your browser is unable to play this video. Please install Adobe Flash? and try again. Alternatively upgrade to a modern browser. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge leave hospital with their new baby son on Tuesday. To the sound of cheers from well-wishers and hospital staff, the pair left the Lindo ward to pose for photographs and to speak to the press outside. Prince William said they were still working on a name. Kate said it was a very emotional and special time, something she believes any parent can relate to Source: Reuters Tuesday 23 July 2013 14.45?EDT Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share via Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Google+ Share on WhatsApp Topics The Duchess of Cambridge Monarchy Prince William Prince George more on this story Harry, prince of fun? Only if you're into naked billiards Michael Moran Michael Moran: The promise made to Prince George may backfire if he grows up to be a bookish nerd more interested in metaphysics than Mahiki Published: 26 Jul 2013 Harry, prince of fun? Only if you're into naked billiards Prince Harry promises fun for new nephew Prince Harry takes on role of doting uncle, saying 'I only hope my brother knows how expensive my baby sitting charges are' Published: 25 Jul 2013 Prince Harry promises fun for new nephew Prince George: how Prince Harry will make his life fun Pete Cashmore: The new royal baby's uncle has promised him some good times, but judging by what Prince Harry has got up to in the past, he won't be the typical babysitter. We wonder what he has in mind Published: 26 Jul 2013 Prince George: how Prince Harry will make his life fun Royal baby overload? Here's some other news you may have missed What else was going on while the world watched the doors of St Mary's hospital for a first glimpse of Prince George? Published: 26 Jul 2013 Royal baby overload? Here's some other news you may have missed Prince George: royal couple choose name fit for a king Published: 24 Jul 2013 Prince George: royal couple choose name fit for a king Prince George: what's in a name? Published: 24 Jul 2013 Prince George: what's in a name? Why the royal baby's name had to be George rather than James John Mullan Published: 25 Jul 2013 Why the royal baby's name had to be George rather than James Prince Harry: 'I will make sure George has fun' - video Published: 26 Jul 2013 Prince Harry: 'I will make sure George has fun' - video popular The Guardian back to top home US world selected opinion sports soccer tech arts lifestyle fashion business money travel environment all sections close home US world selected UK selected europe americas asia middle east africa australia opinion sports soccer MLS NFL MLB NBA NHL soccer live scores tables competitions results fixtures clubs tech games arts movies tv & radio music books art & design stage classical lifestyle food health love & sex family women home & garden fashion business markets companies money travel USA europe UK environment development cities science media crosswords video World ? UK News ? The Duchess of Cambridge jobs subscribe all topics all contributors info and resources contact us feedback complaints & corrections terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy securedrop ? 2015 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All?rights?reserved.