On the surface, the death of Ethan Saylor, a 26-year-old man with Down syndrome in Maryland, would seem to have little in common with the fatal shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. Different races. Different backgrounds. Ethan lived in Frederick County, Md. Trayvon in Miami Gardens, Fla., more than 1,000 miles away. Ethan died at a movie theater, Trayvon just down the street from his home. Ethan succumbed to asphyxiation, Trayvon to a bullet through his heart. The two were about a decade apart in age, navigating very different points in their lives. Yet the cases have common threads, too. Only belatedly did prosecutors file charges in Trayvon's death ? second-degree murder, which was a step too far for the jury. Though the medical examiner ruled Ethan's death a homicide, a grand jury and police department internal investigation found no wrongdoing on the part of the officers at the scene. And the cases merge in a place that matters greatly in American society: Our imperfect legal system could not provide the justice sought by the families of these two young men and demanded by the communities in which they lived. Another tragedy Ethan's death came on a winter evening this past January. His crime: an outburst at a theater because he wanted to see Zero Dark Thirty one more time, but didn't pay for the second showing. When he refused to get out of the seat for the next screening, his aide urged the officers who had been called to the scene to give Ethan space in order to calm down. Instead, police handcuffed him and wrestled the 294-pound man out of the theater and to the ground. Under the huddle of officers, Ethan stopped breathing and responding. An officer performed chest compressions, but Ethan never regained consciousness. He died later that night. According to documents from the Frederick County Sheriff's Department, obtained this week by the Associated Press, the aide, whose name was redacted from the documents, said she had heard Ethan screaming, saying 'ouch,' 'don't touch me,' 'get off' and crying. Next thing I hear is nothing. Harsh history In the shadow of a Florida jury's acquittal of George Zimmerman, there's no need to again walk through the sad details of that case. But his parents are surely agonizing, still. The protests and discussion about #JusticeForTrayvon have not relented because generations of African Americans see the verdict as one more reminder of the harsh history of a judicial system too often used to oppress them. People are urging the Martin family to bring civil claims against Zimmerman and the Department of Justice to file civil rights charges. Celebrities have swamped social media in outrage. Others, such as rapper Trip Lee, have urged Americans of all races and creeds to stop arguing about what they're not sure about, pray for the families and for God's perfect justice, and have honest and awkward dialogue about racism to understand different perspectives. Yet too many people are screaming for justice without a clear picture of what that justice might actually look like in either Ethan's or Trayvon's case. What it might feel like. Whether it will heal these wounds or merely add another scar to our imperfect justice system. Because of the limitations of our laws and unforeseen consequences of our actions, the truth cannot always be perfectly discerned ? or delivered in a courtroom. Indeed, true justice is often impossible to achieve and neither begins nor ends with a jury's verdict. Lady Justice is as blind as she is limited in providing the type of redemption society craves when it screams justice. Perhaps Ethan's justice comes in the form of more training and education for police officers and other public officials on how to best handle adults and children with disabilities. What a fitting memorial it would be if a training module was created in his name, Ethan's friend, Cam Overs, told The Washington Post, so no other family or police force would have to suffer this pain. Perhaps Trayvon's justice comes in the form of authentic and humble discussions about racism and its enduring effects on American society. But more than talk, changing attitudes in the way we see each other and interact with people not like us. That's lasting justice, even if not delivered in the court of law. Joseph Williams is a third-year law student at Vanderbilt University. His younger sister, Mary Rose, is developmentally delayed much like Ethan Saylor was. Although she similarly struggles with emotional outbursts, she also similarly has a zest for life and appreciation of the little things. In addition to its own editorials, USA TODAY publishes diverse opinions from outside writers, including our Board of Contributors.