There were street battles all over Cairo Friday, and all over Egypt. In Cairo, in the summer, life is lived at night, when the heat goes out of the day, and this evening crowds supporting Mohamed Morsi, who was elected President a year ago, swelled in reaction to the military coup that brought him down. It was a night of fire and flares, mobs and gunfire. There was a constant wail of ambulance sirens and veering helicopters. Egyptian television channels are showing nine split-screen images of crowds and riots. It feels like the ?Battle of the Camels? during what Egyptians are now calling the First Revolution, when the crowd at Tahrir Square resisted Mubarak?s thugs. The Army is deployed across several Nile bridges to separate clashing pro- and anti-Morsi protesters, but at midnight there were still reports, via Twitter, of a gunfight on the Gamaa Bridge. The situation is violent and volatile. At dusk, the people at Tahrir rallied around the soldiers atop their armored personnel carriers, cheering the flybys of military aircraft, which were skywriting hearts and striping the dusk with smoke in the colors of the Egyptian flag. The crowd was happy, relieved, grinning. But a ten-minute drive away, along unusually clear highways, the mood at a pro-Morsi demonstration outside the Republican Guard barracks, the last known location of the deposed President, was bitter and tense. Apache helicopters clattered overhead. When the marchers had first arrived, they had been fired upon; three people were reportedly killed, and Jeremy Bowen of the BBC was hit in the head with birdshot. He later reported that he was O.K. A dozen more died in Alexandria. ?The soldiers told us to stand on the pavement,? a young man recounted as he showed me his bloodied hands. He had been at a Brotherhood sit-in in Nasr City for the past week; this afternoon, he had joined the march toward the barracks. ?One man went and put a picture of Morsi on the barbed wire. Then one of the plainclothes guys tried to take it down, but the crowd was chanting against him. So he went back to his group of soldiers and took a gun and started shooting. The man was next to me; he was hit in the neck and he bled to death.? Another man, who told me his name was Tariq Mohammed, had a picture of Morsi that was spattered with blood pinned to his chest. He held what looked like a fragment of bone. He said it was a piece of a man?s skull: ?I saw the first guy who was shot. He was shot in the eye.? He, too, talked of one or two plainclothes men shooting. Afterward, he said, soldiers shot volleys of birdshot, mostly into the air. A doctor in an ambulance told me he had seen seven birdshot injuries. The shocked and angry crowd sat on the dusty road with their heads in their hands. People came up to me with mobile-phone footage of injuries, showing me what appeared to be live ammunition cartridges. As I left, I saw one man sitting on a curb and washing his hands and feet with bottled water, in preparation for the sunset prayer. The polarization of Egypt has been swift and alarming. On Thursday, I walked across the Gamaa Bridge an hour before sunset. The army had blocked it off to traffic, and a knot of Muslim Brotherhood supporters and delivery boys with boxes of pastries on the backs of their mopeds were arguing with the red-beret military police, who told them that they couldn?t cross there. ?Oh, go on then!? an officer snapped. Ten sand-colored Army trucks were lined up on the empty bridge; about a hundred soldiers drilled in formation beside them. They at least gave the impression of being neatly lined up, with all the surrounding streets secured. In the square on the other side of the bridge, a small clump of Brotherhood protesters were remonstrating with a larger group of Army officers and military police. Red-and-white painted barriers blocked traffic, and soldiers stood at every access point, not quite letting people through and not quite stopping them. ?We are coming here for your President and our President!? the Brotherhood men shouted. ?We are coming here to defend legitimacy with our lives!? A clean-shaven general who stood in front of them told the protesters, ?It is not a coup. We are responding to the people.? ?And are not we people?? someone asked him. A thin young man in a purple T-shirt came up and said that the Army had attacked Brotherhood supporters the night before with tear gas. ?Are you Egyptian?? someone yelled at the young man. ?Yes!? ?No, you are Brotherhood! You are a traitor!? By Friday, the passions on both sides were even more unbridled, and those in the middle were taking sides. At a pro-Morsi rally outside Cairo University, I met a couple who described themselves as moderate. The wife was unveiled. ?We are liberal people,? the husband told me. ?We are only defending our vote and our voice. We should give Morsi his time. And we are astonished that after we protested against SCAF??the Supreme Command of the Armed Forces??this could happen.? Another man told me he had originally supported Omar Suleiman, Mubarak?s intelligence chief, who briefly ran for the Presidency before he was disqualified, but that now he had come to ?protest for legitimacy and for the ballot box.? A few hours later, Mohamed Badie, the Muslim Brotherhood?s ?supreme guide,? appeared in front of a crowd several hundred thousand strong at the intersection in Nasr City where the Brotherhood have held a sit-in for the past week. Badie?s very presence energized what was now a crowd of tens of thousands; he had been reported to be under house arrest or in custody. His remarks were a rallying cry??We shall stay in the squares until we bring President Morsi back to power.? This is far from over. Photograph by Khalil Hamra/AP.