The Lede will return to continue covering the ongoing revolution in Egypt on Thursday. In the meantime, readers can dig in further by reading the latest reports from our colleagues in Cairo. Kareem Fahim reports on the response from supporters of the Islamist president. ?Their disappointment on Wednesday was a symptom of a nation still far from healed,? he writes. ?In their anger was a warning, of unsettled days ahead.? The events leading up to the military takeover began last fall, around the time that President Mohamed Morsi issues a decree suspending judicial review of his authority until after the passage of a new constitution. He presented the decree as a temporary measure to prevent the courts from dissolving the constitutional assembly on technical grounds, but the move convinced his political opponents that he was turning into a new authoritarian. As protests erupted, Mr. Morsi sought to publicly condemn his opponents as treasonous conspirators in league with remnants of the Mubarak government ? an approach that became a hallmark of his speeches in moments of crisis and reinforced Egypt?s political polarization. In his speech announcing the takeover, General Sisi said that when the controversy erupted military leaders had reached out to leaders of all the political factions including the Muslim Brotherhood to try to broker a reconciliation. ?All the political powers responded, but it was rejected by the institution of the presidency at the last minute,? the general said. ?The calls and initiatives have followed ever since and until now.? The protests against that declaration were also the beginning of the wave of demonstrations that culminated in an outpouring of millions of Egyptians to call for Mr. Morsi?s ouster last Sunday, on the anniversary of Mr. Morsi?s inauguration. An array of economic and political grievances brought the protestors to the streets, but they were united in the charge that Mr. Morsi had failed to transcend his loyalty to the Muslim Brotherhood and reach effectively to other groups. General Sisi responded with a 48 hour ultimatum for Mr. Morsi to reach a solution meeting the protestors demands. Speaking on condition of anonymity, advisers to Mr. Morsi said he began period of intense negotiations with General Sisi about a proposed solution. By midday on Tuesday, his advisers say, Mr. Morsi had agreed to a package of concessions including firing a public prosecutor he had appointed with his controversial decree and forming a new unity cabinet. The advisers say the general initially considered the concessions adequate but then returned to say that the political opposition had rejected them. Mr. Morsi became convinced that the general was ultimately seeking only his ouster, not real concessions, his advisers say. On Tuesday night, he delivered another speech rejecting the military?s ultimatum and again labeling his opposition as the corrupt remnants of the old government. Announcing the takeover on Wednesday, General Sisi said President Morsi?s speech convinced the generals to act. ?It wasn?t consistent with the demands of the masses of the people.? The Egyptian military spokesman?s office has released a complete English translation of the televised statement by Egypt?s defense minister, Gen. Abdul Fattah el-Sisi, declaring that President Mohamed Morsi had been deposed and a new transition to democracy would begin. The participants have agreed on a future road map with initial steps to bring about a strong and cohesive Egyptian society that excludes none of its members and trends and terminates the state of conflict and division. This road map includes: a ? The temporary suspension of the constitution. c ? To hold early presidential elections with the SCC Chief Justice being in charge of the caretaking of the State during the transitional period until a new president is elected. d ? SCC Chief Justice to be entitled to issue constitutional declarations during the transitional period. e ? To form a strong and capable national government of technocrats enjoying all authorities to manage the current period. f ? To form a commission that includes the full spectrum and experiences to revise the proposed amendments to the constitution, which is temporarily suspended. g ? To urge the Supreme Constitutional Court to expedite the approval of the draft electoral law of the House of Representatives and commence the preparatory procedures of the parliamentary elections. h ? To draw up a media code of ethics that provides for the freedom of the media and ensures professional rules, credibility, impartiality and elevation of the higher interests of the State. i ? To adopt executive measures empowering and merging youths in the State establishments to become partners in the decision-making, as assistants to ministers and governors and various executive posts. j ? To form a higher commission for national reconciliation from figures, who represent all orientations and enjoy credibility and acceptance of all national elites. The spokesman?s office also posted a video set to music with a series of photographs of the various participants in the meetings with the military on Wednesday. The video begins and ends with the camera zooming in slowly on the face of the defense minister. Amid the celebrations on Wednesday night, there were also reports of new sexual assaults, a problem that continues to plague the mass mobilizations in Egypt. As I have said since the Egyptian Revolution, the United States supports a set of core principles, including opposition to violence, protection of universal human rights, and reform that meets the legitimate aspirations of the people. The United States does not support particular individuals or political parties, but we are committed to the democratic process and respect for the rule of law. Since the current unrest in Egypt began, we have called on all parties to work together to address the legitimate grievances of the Egyptian people, in accordance with the democratic process, and without recourse to violence or the use of force. The United States is monitoring the very fluid situation in Egypt, and we believe that ultimately the future of Egypt can only be determined by the Egyptian people. Nevertheless, we are deeply concerned by the decision of the Egyptian Armed Forces to remove President Morsi and suspend the Egyptian Constitution. I now call on the Egyptian military to move quickly and responsibly to return full authority back to a democratically elected civilian government as soon as possible through an inclusive and transparent process, and to avoid any arbitrary arrests of President Morsi and his supporters. Given today?s developments, I have also directed the relevant departments and agencies to review the implications under U.S. law for our assistance to the government of Egypt. The United States continues to believe firmly that the best foundation for lasting stability in Egypt is a democratic political order with participation from all sides and all political parties ? secular and religious, civilian and military. During this uncertain period, we expect the military to ensure that the rights of all Egyptian men and women are protected, including the right to peaceful assembly, due process, and free and fair trials in civilian courts. Moreover, the goal of any political process should be a government that respects the rights of all people, majority and minority; that institutionalizes the checks and balances upon which democracy depends; and that places the interests of the people above party or faction. The voices of all those who have protested peacefully must be heard ? including those who welcomed today?s developments, and those who have supported President Morsi. In the interim, I urge all sides to avoid violence and come together to ensure the lasting restoration of Egypt?s democracy. No transition to democracy comes without difficulty, but in the end it must stay true to the will of the people. An honest, capable and representative government is what ordinary Egyptians seek and what they deserve. The longstanding partnership between the United States and Egypt is based on shared interests and values, and we will continue to work with the Egyptian people to ensure that Egypt?s transition to democracy succeeds. The United States raised its travel warning because of the political upheaval in Egypt and the possibility of lethal violence. An updated travel warning, posted on the Web sites of the State Department and the American Embassy in Cairo, also said the State Department had ordered the evacuation of ?nonemergency U.S. government personnel and family members from Egypt due to the ongoing political and social unrest.? The Cairo embassy has been shuttered for days as deadly protests have escalated against Mohamed Morsi, the country?s first freely elected president. The military ousted him on Wednesday a little more than one year into his term, and the possibility of lethal clashes has grown. A State Department travel advisory for Egypt that had basically been in effect since the 2011 protests against Mr. Morsi?s predecessor, Hosni Mubarak, advised Americans to take precautions when visiting the country. But the updated advisory urges Americans to avoid Egypt altogether. ?The U.S. Department of State warns U.S. citizens to defer travel to Egypt and U.S. citizens living in Egypt to depart at this time because of the continuing political and social unrest,? the updated travel warning stated. ?Demonstrations have, on occasion, degenerated into violent clashes between police and protesters, and between protesters supporting different factions, resulting in deaths, injuries and extensive property damage.? The new warning is a fresh blow to Egypt?s tourism industry, already devastated from the past two years of political uncertainty. It is unclear how many American expatriates live in Egypt, but the number is believed to be in the thousands. Last Friday, an American student who taught English in Egypt was stabbed to death during a violent protest between supporters and opponents of Mr. Morsi in the city of Alexandria. On Wednesday, a nonprofit group, the American Councils for International Education, said it was relocating participants in its Arabic Overseas Flagship Program to Morocco because of the mayhem in Egypt, The Associated Press reported. Calls to the group?s Washington offices were not immediately returned. Islamists clashed with the military in the Mediterranean beach town of Marsa Matrouh and the heavily Christian southern city of Assiut on Wednesday, shortly after the military deposed President Mohamed Morsi and announced a new political ?road map? for the country on state television. As control of the levers of power slipped away from Egypt?s first democratically elected president, with the defense minister announcing that Mohamed Morsi had been deposed in an address on state television Wednesday, the Islamist leader attempted to assert his authority in a defiant response posted on Twitter, Facebook and YouTube. Shortly after it was uploaded to YouTube, a 22-minute video address from Mr. Morsi was deleted from the channel of the Egyptian Presidency. The Lede was able to save a copy of the complete address. In the address, Mr. Morsi said, ?I am the elected president of Egypt,? stressed his ?legitimacy,? and called for speedy parliamentary elections. ?This revolution is being stolen from us,? he said several times. He also warned against ?going into circles of changing leadership which may change several times.? Mr. Morsi also said that he had agreed to the initiative the military communicated to him and that he reamins ready to negotiate. ?I am ready to sit down and for everybody to sit with me and to negotiate with everybody.? He kept repeating that ?there is no alternative to legitimacy? and said ?the legitimacy that changes every few months is a chaos that has no law and no reference point.? According to the photojournalist and blogger Mosa?ab Elshamy, audio of Mr. Morsi rejecting his ouster was played over loudspeakers late Wednesday to Islamist supporters of the deposed president rallying in Cairo?s Nasr City neighborhood. Dr. Mohamed Morsi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, reaffirms that the measures announced by the general command of the armed forces represent a full military coup and it is completely rejected by every free man of the nation who struggled to turn Egypt into a democratic, civil society. The President also emphasizes in his capacity as President of the Republic and chairman of the armed forces for every citizen, both civilian and military: commanders and soldiers must abide by the constitution and the law and not respond to this coup, which is bringing Egypt backwards, and maintain the peacefulness of their action and avoid being implicated in the spilling of the blood of the sons of this nation. Mr. Morsi, or his aides, appeared to retain control over the Egyptian Presidency?s Twitter feed until about an hour ago, when new messages sopped being posted. Islamist supporters of former President Mohamed Morsi reacted with outrage and dismay online after the military deposed him on Wednesday, following several days of widespread demonstrations calling for his ouster. The central elements of the plan are to temporarily suspend Egypt?s Constitution; to appoint the head of the Supreme Constitutional Court to manage the affairs of the state until a new president is elected; form of a technocratic government; to establish a committee of experts to amend the Constitution; and to hold parliamentary elections soon. The complete Arabic text of the defense minister?s speech was posted on the military spokesman?s Facebook page a short time later. As Reuters reports, Egypt?s state news agency said that Egypt?s leading Muslim and Christian clerics and the opposition leader Mohamed ElBaradei were expected to present a ?road map? for the post-Morsi era within the hour. The agency reported that Mr. ElBaradei, a former United Nations diplomat, will present the plan for a political transition with the grand sheikh of Cairo?s Al Azhar, one of the Muslim world?s oldest religious institutions, and Pope Tawadros, the head of the Coptic Church Leading generals and members of the Tamarrod movement, who organized this week?s mass protests, are also expected to be present. President Mohamed Morsi held his ground in a statement released via the Facebook account of the presidential spokesman earlier on Wednesday, shortly after an army-imposed deadline for him to reconcile with his political foes or resign passed, saying that he remained the legitimate and democratically elected president of Egypt. ?The presidency reaffirms that violating constitutional legitimacy threatens democratic practice by veering off the right track and threatens the freedom of expression that Egypt has lived since the revolution,? the statement said. Mr. Morsi proposed the formation of a ?consensus coalition government? to administer parliamentary elections and forming ?an independent committee? to propose constitutional amendments. ?Everyone should be aware of the clear reality that the Egyptian people, supporters and opponents, have expressed their opinion by taking to the streets in the past days. Hundreds of thousands went down from both sides,? said the statement. ?And one of the mistakes that I cannot accept ? as president of all Egyptians ? is to be biased to one party or to reduce the scene to one party as fairness requires listening to the voice of the people from all the squares.? As I write these lines I am fully aware that these may be the last lines I get to post on this page. For the sake of Egypt and for historical accuracy, let?s call what is happening by its real name: Military coup. It has been two and a half years after a popular revolution against a dictatorship that had strangled and drained Egypt for 30 years. That revolution restored a sense of hope and fired up Egyptians? dreams of a future in which they could claim for themselves the same dignity that is every human being?s birthright. On Jan. 25 I stood in Tahrir Square. My children stood in protest in Cairo and Alexandria. We stood ready to sacrifice for this revolution. When we did that, we did not support a revolution of elites. And we did not support a conditional democracy. We stood, and we still stand, for a very simple idea: given freedom, we Egyptians can build institutions that allow us to promote and choose among all the different visions for the country. We quickly discovered that almost none of the other actors were willing to extend that idea to include us. You have heard much during the past 30 months about ikhwan excluding all others. I will not try to convince you otherwise today. Perhaps there will come a day when honest academics have the courage to examine the record. Today only one thing matters. In this day and age no military coup can succeed in the face of sizable popular force without considerable bloodshed. Who among you is ready to shoulder that blame? I am fully aware of the Egyptian media that has already attempted to frame ikhwan for every act of violence that has taken place in Egypt since January 2011. I am sure that you are tempted to believe this. But it will not be easy. There are still people in Egypt who believe in their right to make a democratic choice. Hundreds of thousands of them have gathered in support of democracy and the presidency. And they will not leave in the face of this attack. To move them, there will have to be violence. It will either come from the army, the police, or the hired mercenaries. Either way there will be considerable bloodshed. And the message will resonate throughout the Muslim World loud and clear: democracy is not for Muslims. I do not need to explain in detail the worldwide catastrophic ramifications of this message. In the last week there has been every attempt to issue a counter narrative that this is just scaremongering and that the crushing of Egypt?s nascent democracy can be managed. We no longer have the time to engage in frivolous academic back and forth. The audience that reads this page understands the price that the world continues to pay for the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Egypt is neither Afghanistan nor Iraq. Its symbolic weight and resulting impact is far more significant. Last night, demonstrators at Cairo University supporting the president were fired upon using automatic weapons. Twenty people died and hundreds were injured. There are people in Egypt and around the world that continue to try to justify the calls for early presidential elections because of the large numbers of demonstrators and the validity of their grievances. Let me be very clear. The protesters represent a wide spectrum of Egyptians and many of them have genuine, valid grievances. President Morsi?s approval rating is down. Now let me be equally clear. Since January and again in the last couple of weeks the president has repeatedly called for national dialogue. Equally repeatedly, the opposition refused to participate. Increasingly, the so-called liberals of Egypt escalated a rhetoric inviting the military to become the custodians of government in Egypt. The opposition has steadfastly declined every option that entails a return to the ballot box. Yesterday, the president received an initiative from an alliance of parties supporting constitutional legitimacy. He discussed it with the prime minister and the minister of defense and all three of them agreed that it presented an excellent path for Egypt out of its current impasse. The initiative called for a full change of cabinet, a prime minister acceptable to all, changing the public prosecutor, agreement on constitutional amendments, and a reconciliation commission. And let us also be clear. The president did not have to offer all these concessions. In a democracy, there are simple consequences for the situation we see in Egypt: the president loses the next election or his party gets penalized in the upcoming parliamentary elections. Anything else is mob rule. In the last year we have been castigated by foreign governments, foreign media, and rights groups whenever our reforms in the areas of rights and freedoms did not keep pace with the ambitions of some or adhere exactly to the forms used in other cultures. The silence of all of those voices with an impending military coup is hypocritical and that hypocrisy will not be lost on a large swath of Egyptians, Arabs and Muslims. Many have seen fit in these last months to lecture us on how democracy is more than just the ballot box. That may indeed be true. But what is definitely true is that there is no democracy without the ballot box. The youth activists had laid out a detailed six-point ?road map? for a transition in a Facebook post on Tuesday. Citing ?military and party sources,? Reuters reported that the Muslim Brotherhood was invited to attend the meeting, but refused to send a delegation. Also in attendance were representatives of the ?Tamarrod,? or ?Rebel? campaign, which organized this week?s large anti-Morsi street protests, and members of the Nour Party, an ultraconservative Salafi Islamist party that once was an ally of Mr. Morsi. Reuters quoted one unnamed opposition source saying that Mr. ElBaradei would use the meeting to ?urge the armed forces to intervene to stop the bloodshed.? It also reported that Sheik El-Tayeb ?endorsed the army?s position? and called ?on political leaders to heed antigovernment protesters.? A spokesman for President Mohamed Morsi said that Mr. Morsi believed it would be better to ?die standing like a tree? as Egypt?s elected president than to give in to a military deadline set to run out Wednesday afternoon calling for him to cede power or face the prospect of a forced ouster, according to Reuters reports. As The Lede reported late Tuesday, the rising tensions between President Mohamed Morsi?s Islamist supporters and their opponents escalated into deadly street violence overnight, with images and video from the scene resembling war footage. Our colleagues David Kirkpatrick and Ben Hubbard report from Cairo: ?Egyptian officials said at least 18 people had died and more than 300 were injured in fighting near an Islamist rally in support of Mr. Morsi near Cairo University. State media reported that the dead included victims from both sides and that most died of gunshot wounds.?