?No more beards?: Crowds stir while Egypt?s army hunts 300 followers of ousted president Morsi The night of the long knives begins, as the Egyptian military begin cleaning house following the forced exit of Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood. Already, both President Obama and UK Foreign Secretary William Hague have opposed the transition of political power in Egypt, decrying this week?s events as ?undemocratic?, but it seems their views run opposite to the will of the Egyptian people, as well as from the people in the Middle East overall ? in what has been an overwhelming vote in favor of Arab Nationalism ? over Islamic theocracies. Obama, visibly upset by the loss of the party The White House installed into power only a year ago, stated,??We are deeply concerned by the decision of the Egyptian Armed Forces to remove President Morsi and suspend the Egyptian constitution. I now call on the Egyptian military to move quickly and responsibly to return full authority back to a democratically elected civilian government?. Morsi?s sudden outser could affect the $1.5 billion in military aid given to Egypt annually by the US, but the aid is seen by many in Washington and Tel Aviv as a balancing element in the region, and beneficial to Israel and Egypt?s mutual security concerns. Even the conservative United Arab Emirates have come out immediately in favor of this week?s result in Egypt, which should come as a surprise to many, considering their position between Saudi Arabia and Qatar. After the dust settles around Cairo, however, the country will have to fend against the imminent danger of slipping into a civil war over the coming 12 months, as the political wounds suffered this week by Islamic factions are deep and may fester should the military and their interim leader, judge?Adly Mansour, chairman of the Supreme Constitutional Court ? fall out of favour with what is now a politically restless population ? one which is in danger of drifting into sectarianism. Certainly, this could be viewed as an upgrade from the usual flag burning ? an indication that Middle Eastern protesters are becoming smarter by focusing on corrupt leaders in the seats of power, rather than venting their anger at America as whole. In this way, one could say that Egyptians appear to share a common cause with millions of Americans whose frustration is rising against the endless scandals plaguing Washington DC at present. Mohammed Badie was detained late last night?in the Mediterranean coastal city of Marsa Matrouh, near the Libyan border, where he has been staying in a villa owned by a businessman with Brotherhood links. He, and his powerful deputy, Khairat el-Shater, are wanted for questioning over their role in the killing this week of eight demonstrators in clashes outside the Brotherhood?s Cairo headquarters. A report by the official news agency gave no further details, but Mr Badie and Mr el-Shater are on a wanted list of more than 300 Brotherhood members and leaders of other Islamist groups.