According to the website?s Twitter feed, ?Pro-Morsy protesters at Cairo University chant the anti-Jewish slogan: ??Khaybar, Khayber, O Jews, the army of Mohamed will return.?? According to historians, the Battle of Khaybar was fought in the 7th century in what is now modern-day Saudi Arabia between the invading army of the Muslim Prophet Muhammad and his followers, and the indigenous Jewish population. Muhammed?s army won and the Jewish population was eventually expelled from the area. Egypt has been embroiled in political turmoil since the weekend, when deadly protests broke out across the country both in support of and in opposition to President Mohamed Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood. The Egyptian Army issued an ultimatum Monday to Morsi, telling him that a resolution to the political crisis must be found by Wednesday night or it will intervene. Morsi has flatly rejected the ultimatum. Well, Mr. Morsi and his followers have been removed from office by the Egyptian Army and there is an interim leader. It seems that the Egyptians want to be governed by a secular government where the various sectors of society are allowed to exist in peace with each other: the Muslims, members of the Coptic Church and other Christians, in addition to the secularists. They want a separation of religion and state. There will be new elections and speculate that the Muslim Brotherhood will not be allowed to run for office. They can only issue religious edicts and not govern. To put things more accurate ? There were three main Jewish tribes in Yathreb. One of the real motivations behind Muhammad?s assault on the jews was mere covetousness of their rich farms and manors and other trades. Secondly, out of the three tibes two were expelled and the third one ? the Banu Qurayza ? suffered the worst doom: 600 hundred of their men were butchered and slayed, their women and children enslaved and coersed to Islam. Actually, the women were turned into slaves who were, to put it bluntly, raped by the prophrt and his followers. In Muslim tradition it is told that Muhammad married two or three of the Jewish women. Readind the phrasing which describes his first intercourse with one of them leaves no doubt of ita nature. The word Batash in Arabic means rape. Sorry. That?s the way things were. The BBC has produced coverage of the Egyptian turmoil that is even more pathetic than ever, no doubt thanks to the presence of Jew-hater Jeremy Bowen who clearly sympathises with Morsi and his Moslem Brotherhood. He has been asserting that he has met lots of people who are ?willing to die? for the cause of Morsi. Let them prove it! The word ?Israel? has not yet been uttered but you wait, Israel will soon be blamed for all of Egypt?s ills! What would the Arabs, Tutu and the rest of the world have to say???