Twitter, @Repent11 Journalist Mohamed Ismael announces MB planning a major attack tonight on broadcast stations used by State TV based in various Cairo sites 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 Anti-US sentiment is brewing in Egypt since June 30 Tamarod holding protest/press conference on Sunday to portray details of US support to MB 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 Loud explosion in Rafah, Sinai and attacks on two checkpoints in Arish 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 Special forces now engaging with MB fighters in Manial. One police officer just got shot in stomach. At least 5 people killed. 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 MB members on top of Salah El Din mosque in Manial now firing at protesters, unconfirmed reports 5 killed. Military on way to scene. 						 							Twitter, @RenaNetjes Tamarrod is calling Egyptians to fill the squares starting from tomorrow 						 							Twitter, @adhamhafez Luxor international hospital received now 3 burnt corpses from the earlier Muslim Brotherhood attack on 23 coptic family houses 						 							12 killed in clashes in Alexandria, bringing nationwide toll to 30 						 							Twitter, @SultanAlQassemi Al Arabiya - Khairet El Shater taken to Tora Prison where Saad El Katatni, Hazem Salah Abu Ismail and Rashad Bayoumi are held 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 Veiled woman arrested in Alexandria wearing an explosive belt under her clothes according to Mogaz news 						 							Army briefly confiscates CNN crew's equipment, returns with footage of soldiers erased 						 							Egypt army denies curfew in two North Sinai towns 						 							Gun battles continue on Gamaza Bridge near Cairo University 						 							17 people were killed in violence in Egypt on Friday as supporters of deposed Islamist President Mohamed Morsi protested his overthrow by the army, state television said, quoting Health Ministry data. 						 							Twitter, @AlexanderPageSY Egyptian security forces handed 6 MB supporters over to their opposition where they were then beaten and dragged across the street 						 							Twitter, ?@AymanM AntiMorsi supporters have now controlled 6 oct bridge & ramp on to corniche chanting slurs against Morsi army and people one hand 						 							Death toll in Egypt clashes rises to 10, 210 injured - Health Ministry 						 							Twitter, @AymanM Egyptian Military APC's moving across the bridge 						 							Twitter, @Ateyya Breaking: pro-Morsi cut Kobry Al Gamaa Bridge, ?Abbas bridge, they intensify attacks on Abdul Monem Reyad, take full control of October bridge. 						 							Twitter, @AymanM Pro Morsi protestors have made strong push up the ramp of Oct 6 bridge. Now controlling ramp. Fighting still raging on. No police 						 							Twitter, @Ateyya Ministry of Health: 70 injured in abdul monem reyad clashes so far 						 							Twitter, @SherineT Total mayhem here at Maspero. Thousands against thousands. Street battles. People injured lying on the ground 						 							Twitter, @Ateyya Breaking: pro Morsi protesters cut central train line in upper Egypt 						 							Egypt's health ministry has said that six people have been killed in clashes across Egypt on Friday 						 							1 person reported dead in Alexandria clashes 						 							Twitter, @AymanM Ambulances turned back from front lines on fighting on Oct 6 bridge. Protestors now using fireworks to attack each other 						 							Twitter, @AymanM Car set on fire on October 6 bridge, fighting is raging. Gunshots, fireworks, stone throwing 						 							?Twitter, @Repent11 Commander of 3rd Egyptian Army releases statement saying Do not believe rumors about defections in the ranks of military 						 							The Egyptian prosecutor's office has denied reports about release of senior Muslim Brotherhood leaders 						 							Twitter, @AymanM Massive fight breaking out between pro & anti Morsi protestors on October 6 bridge. Helicopter flying over head 						 							Twitter, @AymanM Pro-Morsi supporters breaking pavement to throw stones, men with guns, sticks, knives ready to fight outside state TV. No police is seen 						 							Saad El-Katatni, head of the Brotherhood's political wing and former speaker of parliament, and Rashad al-Bayoumi, one of the Brotherhood's deputy leaders ordered freed 						 							Twitter, @AymanM Pro-Morsi supporters now have blocked all of the corniche from foreign ministry to October 6 bridge 						 							Twitter ?@Ateyya: pro-Morsi mob attack the house of Yaser Burhamy, vice president of the Salafi Daawa in Alexandria 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 National Salvation Front calls for nationwide protests on Sunday to Protect Revolution's Legitimacy 						 							Egypt health ministry confirms three killed at army HQ 						 							More than 80 women were victims of sexual assault in and around Tahrir Square during Wednesday's rallies, reports The Guardian's Patrick Kingsley. He spoke to Mariam Kirollos, an organizer at the volunteer rescue group Operation Anti-Sexual Harassment OpAntish , which has squads of rescuers patrolling the square. 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 92 protesters from both sides injured in ongoing clashes in Sidi-Gaber Alexandria. Security fires tear gas. More ambulances dispatched 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 1 protester killed in Asiut with gunshot wounds. Intense clashes security fires tear gas to disperse pro-and anti Morsi protesters 						 							Twitter, @NahlahAyed Clashes not far from Tahrir between pro and anti Morsi protesters...pro morsi apparently trying to reach Tahrir. 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 Islamists attempting to storm into Luxor Orthodox Church. Security forces fire tear gas. 						 							Pro-Morsi protesters are marching to the state TV building now: AFP 						 							Morsi's supporters gave a few hours to the the Republican Guard to free their leader. Otherwise we will be forced to release him by force, - said the demonstrators. 						 							A large group of Morsi supporters are crossing the 6 October bridge towards Tahrir square, which is filled with people who opposed Morsi's presidency. 						 							An Egyptian supporter of the Muslim Brotherhood and deposed president Mohamed Morsi shouts slogans during a demonstration: Photo AFP 							Supporters of ousted Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi carry a man who was shot during a gun battle: Photo AFP 							Twitter, @Timcast Molotovs thrown, clashes starting near Tahrir. 						 							A supporter of the Muslim Brotherhood and ousted Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi portrait shows bloodstains on his shirt from victims who were shot during a gun battle outside the Cairo headquarters of the Republican Guard: Photo AFP 							Twitter, @Ateyya 4 Breaking: Pro-Morsi attack Tahrir sit-in with from Abdul Monem Reyad side with rocks. Birdshots used from both sides in Tahrir clashes 						 							Enormous crowd gathered in Cairo for Muslim Brotherhood supreme leader Mohammed Badia's speech: Photo EPA 							Egyptian police in the province of Dakhla arrested two people in whose car were discovered 15 improvised explosive devices and a large number of patrons, local media reported. As the General Sami al-Micah said, the detainees gave a confession that they had intended to deliver the ammunition to supporters of ousted President Mohamed Morsi 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 2 policemen dressed in civilian clothes just proclaimed dead suffering of gunshot wounds in Arish hospital. 						 							Twitter, @ghazalairshad Throwing shoes, cursing, booing every time Egypt army helicopters overhead never gets old at the Morsi demo. 						 							Badia also asked the Egyptian army to not take sides in the protests and said that military rule will never come back to Egypt. ?Curse everyone who wants to hurt the revolution and take it back to military rule.? 						 							?We will sacrifice ourselves, our souls and our blood, for president Morsi,? he said. 						 							Badia just finished speaking at a pro-Morsi rally in Nasr City, Cairo. ?No one speaks on behalf of the Egyptian people,? Badia said. ?Everyone has one voice and had the chance to vote.? 						 							Twitter, @NahlahAyed Several more tanks arrive at a bridge leading to Tahrir. 						 							Turkey prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan also said that The West has failed the sincerity test. No offence, but democracy does not accept double standards. 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 8 ambulances just arrived now to Arish hospital carrying more youth all injured with gunshot wounds fired from Apache helicopters 						 							Helicopters flew over head as Badia spoke to the crowd: ?I take pride in my president Morsi, who is your president and president of all Egyptians. ?We will stay in public squares until we free our elected president and we carry him on our shoulders, Badia said. 						 							The Badia's speech came as a surprise as it was reported on Thursday that Badie had been arrested. ?I did not escape arrest warrant, such accusations are mere lies,? he said. 						 							?The Muslim Brotherhood are one of you and they have been serving you and I am one of your servants,? Mohammed Badia addressed pro-Morsi supporters at a rally in Nasr City, Cairo. 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 Policeman just got shot in the head by a masked gunman in Arish. He is in critical condition in Arish hospital. Police withdrew from streets 						 							Twitter, @Repent11 3 eyewitnesses injured pro-Morsi protesters tell me they were shot at by army while masses prayed 3asr outside governorate building in Arish 						 							Supreme Guide of the Muslim Brotherhood, Mohammed Badia, is on stage at Raba3 Adewya and about to speak to the masses in which could be a definitive speech. 						 							Twitter, @RenaNetjes There is an army tank arriving over the Qasr El Eini bridge now, direction Tahrir. 						 							Some of the organizations that support the overthrow of the Mursi saying in Twitter that they withdrew its volunteers from Tahrir Square for the sake of their own safety. 						 							Supporters of ousted President Mohamed Morsi must remain on the premises until a legitimate head of state does not return to his seat. This was announced today by one of the leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood , Issam al-Aryan, speaking in front of thousands of Islamists gathered in the square outside the mosque Rabia al Adao in the Cairo district of Madinat Nasr. 						 							Muslim Brotherhood official tells supporters not to confront Egypt army 						 							Twitter, @SherineT Pro-Morsi protesters that were heading for Tahrir Square have now stopped at Galaa Sq nearby for now 						 							Turkey prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan condemned the removal of Mohamed Morsi in televised remarks on Friday. Those who rely on the guns in their hands, those who rely on the power of the media cannot build democracy.... Democracy can only be built at ballot box, said Erdogan, according to AFP. 						 							The Russian Embassy in Cairo has strengthened security measures said the spokesman of the diplomatic mission to the RIA 						 							Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood denied its supreme guide, Mohamed Badie, has been detained, with a spokesman for the Islamist movement telling AFP he would address a rally Friday of supporters of ousted president Mohamed Morsi. Security forces said on Thursday Badie had been arrested by military police at the request of the prosecution for inciting the killing of protesters. 						 							Despite the Egyptian army's denial of shots at protesters, reporters in Cairo citing people who saw the shootings victims or suffered themselves: @PatrickKingsley This man, Anas Abdel Rahim, says a teenager died in his arms after being shot by a live bullet. 						 							Twitter, @AlexanderPageSY The Pro-Morsi crowd looks furious, chanting Free our president and marching very quickly some running towards Tahrir Sq. 						 							One of the protest leaders, Mohamed el-Beltagi, spoke to the crowd of Morsi supporters in central Cairo. 						 							 Only the upper house, the Shura Council, had remained active after the lower house was dissolved by military-led authorities shortly before Morsi was elected a year ago. State TV also said that Adli Mansour, the constitutional court chief justice sworn in as head of state on Thursday, had appointed Mohamed Ahmed Farid as head of intelligence. He replaces Mohamed Raafat Shehata, a Morsi appointee, who becomes national security adviser to Mansour. 						 							Protesters rioted in the cities of Ismailia, Suez and El-Arish, the website of the French newspaper Le Figaro reports. According to the newspaper, clashes with law enforcement officers began when protesters tried to break into government offices. 						 							Temporary President of Egypt dissolves the upper house of parliament - TV 						 							Morsi's supporters gather around Cairo University to march to Tahrir to disperse the protesters there. 						 							Journalists reports from the protest that Apache attack choppers circling overhead of the crowd: @sharifkouddous Crowd has grown large. Situation tense but calm near prayer time. 						 							Twitter, @sharifkouddous: Many say they came to protest at the Republican Guard club because they believe Morsi is being held inside 						 							The television channel Al Arabiya confirms, citing its correspondent, that the security forces fired tear gas to scatter the demonstrators. Al Arabiya and Western mass media reported earlier that 3 people had died and tens had been injured in clashes between the Egyptian army and Morsi?s supporters 						 							Reporters denied Egyptian's army claims that no one get shot on the protest. The BBC's Jeremy Bowen says Morsi supporters were verbally warned not to cross a road in front of the Republican Guards HQ. When they did so, shots were fired into the air and within a minute shots were fired into the crowd. He saw one bearded man killed. 						 							The BBC's reporter Jeremy Bowen has confirmed he has been wounded but that he is fine : @BowenBBC Thanks for the messages. I've been hit by a couple of shotgun pellets. Am fine and heading out 						 							Egyptian Interior Ministry also denied the death of 3 people in a pro-Morsi rally in Cairo, state TV reports. 						 							The Egyptian army denies allegations of firing at the supporters of deposed President Mohamed Morsi in Cairo, and insists they fired blank cartridges and tear gas.