By Jeremy Bowen Published: 19:08 EST, 6 July 2013 | Updated: 09:19 EST, 7 July 2013 Even when a crowd is angry, pressing forward towards lines of soldiers armed with automatic weapons, it is always a shock when the shooting starts. On Friday the Egyptian army had its soldiers dressed for trouble, drawn up behind barbed wire sealing off the officers? club of the Presidential Guard. The protesters, all men, mostly bearded, bubbling with fury, believed the deposed Muslim Brotherhood president Mohammed Morsi was being held inside. Scroll down for video When they ignored an order from an officer to stay on the opposite side of the road, fire from the army?s automatic weapons started crackling into the sky. The warning shots scattered some, but seconds later I saw army gun barrels levelled and firing into the crowd. The army had tear gas, but made no attempt? to use it before they opened fire. Our team ran with some demonstrators for cover. When I peered out round the corner of a building I saw a bearded man lying in the street. He was carried over to where we were. It was obvious from his injuries that he was dead. My colleagues, cameraman Nik Millard and Amr Aboulfath, who looks after security and translation, had a muffled conversation from behind their gas masks, and we decided to move. It meant crossing the road, a big open space. On the way across, I felt as if I had been punched in the ear. I stumbled over the kerb, into the cover of a brick building, assuming a tear gas canister had hit me. In fact the pain came from shotgun pellets. Blood was dripping on to my shirt when I saw the right leg of my jeans was also bloody. Amr and Bunny Coleman, a security man working for Channel 4 News, took dressings out of my backpack and bandaged me up. Egyptians who saw what had happened started apologising. Later on, X-rays showed I had a pellet buried quite deep in my right calf. Another one punctured the skin low down on my right temple and lodged in my ear. I wasn?t the only British journalist hit. Earlier three people from Channel 4, including Bunny, were at the wrong end of a shotgun blast. I was lucky, as the pellet in my ear did not hit anything to do with my hearing. A few inches the other way and it would have damaged my left eye. What is happening here is the nightmare so many feared. The decision by army commander General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi to intervene on one side in Egypt?s bitterly divided battle for power automatically alienated the big slice of the population that supported Morsi. Two strong forces are facing off against each other. On one side, the army, which has seized control of the government, replaced the President and locked him up. It is calculating that the momentum and support it has had from the huge anti-Morsi marches in Tahrir Square will carry it through the crisis. On the other is the Muslim Brotherhood, which is the strongest social and political movement in the country. Its leaders say they will not stop demonstrating until Morsi is reinstated. Only a year in power, after 85 years of trying, is not something they are prepared to accept. No one forces journalists to go to dangerous places. Unfortunately my job means accepting some risk. The region is in the throes of an historic transformation. Powerful forces are at work, and sometimes that means threatening moments. It can be exhausting, and this weekend it?s painful. But it is the price of having a front seat as history is being made, and the chance to explain what?s happening to the world.?