After a week of anti-government protests by millions of Egyptians, the army ousted their first democratically elected president in a dramatic move today that turned Cairo from a bloody battleground to a jubilant street party. Mohammed Morsi and his Muslim Brotherhood denounced the ?illegal military coup? ? but liberal foes called it a relaunch of the Arab Spring revolt of 2011. Thousands in Cairo?s Tahrir Square greeted the news with chants of ?Long live Egypt,? ?God is Great? and ?The people and the army are one hand.? But members of Morsi?s Muslim Brotherhood ? who had clashed with enemies earlier in the day in fighting that killed 23 people ? countered at rallies with chants of ?Down with the rule of the military.? At least four people were killed in clashes in the first hours after Morsi was overthrown. Morsi went into hiding after refusing to shed power and ignoring a 48-hour army ultimatum to end the violence. Fireworks erupted in Tahrir Square ? the ground zero of the 2011 revolt ? as joyous protesters cheered the announcement on state TV by Morsi?s own defense minister that his tumultuous reign ended after just over one year. Army Chief Abdel Fattah al-Sisi told the beleaguered nation that the head of Egypt?s constitutional court would lead a non-partisan, ?technocratic? government until new presidential elections are held. The Obama Administration said it was ?very concerned? about the future of a vital US ally. But American officials said the Egyptian military promised ? in calls with Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Gen. Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff ? to put a civilian government in place quickly. Stream videos at Ustream Nevertheless, the US is preparing for a possible bloodbath: Non-essential diplomats and Embassy personnel were ordered to leave the country, officials said last night. Also, 18 US students in an Arabic language program run by the nonprofit American Councils for International Education are being evacuated. Just before al-Sisi?s announcement the military slapped a travel ban on Morsi and his supporters, banning them from flying out of the country. But widespread rumors that he was under house arrest or surrounded in a Defense Ministry outpost proved to be untrue. SEE: SCENES FROM EGYPT To many Egyptians, the past week has been a replay of the anti-government demonstrations of January and February 2011, which the despotic president Hosni Mubarak tried to crush with his security forces. Mubarak was eased out of power by the military, which presided over a strained transition period in which Islamist parties battled liberals for control. Morsi won the presidency and pushed through a constitution that favored him in Egypt?s first democratic elections. But he lost the support of ordinary Egyptians as he refused to share power and couldn?t solve the country?s severe economic crisis. ?We ousted one dictator and now we?ve ousted a second one,? said Adal El-Bendary, 45, sitting at a cafe near Tahrir yesterday. ?We?ll do it again if necessary. We are experienced now.? Morsi had tried to hold onto power in a desperate speech Tuesday night in which he repeatedly used the word ?legitimacy? to make the case that he had been democratically elected. That failed to sway the powerful and popular Egyptian armed forces. ?The president?s speech last night failed to meet and conform with the demands? of the people, Sisi said. That forced the military to consult ?with some of the symbols of the national forces and the youths without excluding anyone,? he added. They agreed on a ?road map that includes initial steps that realize the building of a strong and coherent Egyptian society that doesn?t exclude any of its sons and currents and that end the state of conflict and division.? He spoke while flanked by the country?s top Muslim and Christian clerics as well as pro-reform leader Mohammed ElBaradei and two representatives of the youth opposition movement behind the wave of protests. During the day Sisi met with ElBaradei as well as Egypt?s top Muslim cleric, Al-Azhar Sheik Ahmed el-Tayeb, and Coptic Pope Tawadros II, and even members of the ultraconservative Salafi movement in an apparent bid to build a consensus in favor of the ?road map.? The Muslim Brotherhood boycotted the session. Officials said the military would swear in a caretaker president, Adly Mansour, today. The virtually unknown 67-year-old father of three had been named by Morsi himself to Egypt?s top judicial post in May. But Sisi?s announcement left many questions unanswered, including what the role of the military would be and what will become of Morsi. In theory, he might be able to run again for president, when a new round of elections are set. The military prepared for its move by stationing troops in key parts of Cairo before last night?s announcement. Security forces took control of the bridge leading to Cairo University, where 23 people died in clashes earlier in the day. Also, the television station of the Muslim Brotherhood was taken off air and its managers arrested hours after Morsi was ousted, state news agency MENA reported. But Morsi got his message out on YouTube. He quickly posted a 21-minute video that said the ?full coup? was ?categorically rejected by all free men of our nation.? He called on supporters to resist peacefully ? but accused the army of seeking a violent showdown. ?Whoever planned this wants to spill the blood of the Egyptian people,? he said. Rival pro- and anti-Morsi mobs stoned each other in Cairo shortly before his message was posted. A large group of Moris supporters tried to march on the presidential palace but was blocked by troops early today. Also, four people believed to be Morsi supporters died in fighting in the northern city of Marsaw Matrouh early today, local officials said. And a major clash between the two sides was reported in the Mediterranean city of Alexandria. The Egyptian crisis, which was brewing for months, posed a major problem for the Obama Adminsitration, which eased Mubarak out of power and is widely seen as responsible for making the transition to democracy work. There is also a difficult legal question now facing Washington: Egypt, the largest Arab nation, receives $1.5 billion in US aid each year. But under US law, if Morsi?s removal is determined to be an unconstitutional coup, the administration would be forced to suspend that aid. Sen. Patrick Leahy, chairman of the Senate subcommittee that oversees foreign aid, said last night, ?Egypt?s military leaders say they have no intent or desire to govern, and I hope they make good on their promise.? ?In the meantime, our law is clear: US aid is cut off when a democratically elected government is deposed by military coup or decree.? Earlier yesterday the Obama Administration carefully avoided criticizing the military. Asked whether the Egyptian army had the legitimacy to remove Morsi from power, State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said, ?We?re not taking sides in this.? But Rep. Ed Royce, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, welcomed the regime change. ?It is unfortunate that Morsi did not heed popular demands for early elections after a year of his incompetent leadership and attempting a power grab for the Muslim Brotherhood,? the California Republican said. ?Morsi was an obstacle to the constitutional democracy most Egyptians wanted.? With Post wire services With Post wire services.