There are now detectible amounts of cesium, iodine and tritium in Pacific waters of the Northwest U.S. and Canada, directly due to a plume of radioactive material that has been reaching around the Pacific Ocean since the Fukushima plant disaster two years ago. During the last two years scientists have measured a worldwide impact with global fallout ? mostly centered around Japan and the Pacific Rim. http://tinyurl.com/bnfwcnr http://www.biogeosciences-discuss.net? This month soaring radioactivity levels have been measured on the coast of Japan at the Fukushima plant, and in the ocean around it. Scientists say that nuclear material likely has leeched from melted fuel cores and into the environment. http://tinyurl.com/n8vj52o About the sudden surge in radioactivity, The Wall Street Journal reported on July 8, 2013: ?More than two years after the devastating accident at Japan?s Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, operator [Tepco] is seeing levels soar of a radioactive element called tritium. The problem spot is on the coastal side of the plant?s heavily damaged No. 2 reactor, one of the areas where Tepco regularly monitors groundwater to check for radioactive elements that may have leeched from the plant?s partly melted fuel cores and into the environment.? http://tinyurl.com/lrb26kp Tokyo Electric Power Co. reports that 2,300 becquerels per liter of tritium was found in seawater sampled off its crippled Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power station on July 11, 2013. They also report that cesium levels have jumped 9,000% over 3 days in the groundwater. These are the highest levels recorded since the March 2011 accident. http://tinyurl.com/knwwmzt There have been reports that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has made efforts to diminish reporting the extent and severity of the radioactive materials being released by the damaged Fukushima nuclear power plant. It?s clear that the NRC, the U.S. government and the Japanese have been tracking the movement of radiation across the Pacific and around the world, but data is not being released to news sources and the general public. Since the initial disaster the NRC has been reporting ?safe? levels of radioactive materials in the environment around the Pacific Ocean. But independent studies have shown a 28% increase in thyroid problems in babies born in Alaska, California, Hawaii, Oregon and Washington State since the Fukushima disaster. It seems evident that populations in the path of the nuclear plume are being effected, and that the information about it is not being made available. Whatever the current status, it seems clear that, as long as the plant continues leaking radioactive materials we will not see the full extent of negative effects around the Pacific Rim for years to come. http://tinyurl.com/luvc5dx The recent sudden jump in radioactive measurements at Fukushima has some serious possible implications. There is the possibility that the burning fuel cores at Fukushima have ?particulated? due to the uncontrolled conditions that they have been in for the last two years. Japan?s Skilled Veterans Corps is a group of retired skilled professionals who are committed to stabilizing the Fukushima plant. The founder of the Skilled Veterans Corps recently remarked that the fuel from Fukushima reactors may now be in powder form, as reported by Enews: ?Fuel from Fukushima reactors may be powder ? If so, work is almost impossible.? There is further speculation that the uncontrolled nuclear burn may have resulted in a limited ?China Syndrome? effect. The possibility is that the burning fuel rods have caused a further meltdown that has created a hole in the earth under the reactor. In this way the rods could have ?particulated? and entered the water table, the soil and could be washing into the Pacific. ? Whatever the actual cause of the recent sudden jump in radiation, The Tokyo Times reports that ?A fish contaminated with radiation levels more than 2,500 times the legal limit has been caught near Japan?s crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, its operator said on Friday. Tokyo Electric Power Co. TEPCO said caesium equivalent to 254,000 becquerels per kilogramme ? or 2,540 times more than the government seafood limit ? was detected in the ?murasoi? fish.? Prayer is Desperately Needed! Please Pray: Pray for Japan ? pray that the government will be honest about the dangers still present, so that people can take steps to protect themselves and their families. Pray for Pacific Nations ? The radiation plume is constantly flowing out over the Pacific Ocean, effecting the water, the air, the wildlife and the land that it washes up on. Pray that God will cover the people and the land around the Pacific Rim. Pray for the West Coast of the U.S. and Canada ? Effects are already being seen in births along the Northwest Coast. This is chilling news, and we must ramp up our efforts to pray. Pray for our states, pray for our environment, pray for our families throughout the Great Northwest. Pray that government agencies around the world, including the NRC, will be transparent in reporting, and will alert the people of the world to the actual dangers moving forward from the Fukushima disaster. It is better if we know ? then we can pray, work, and take steps to ensure the health of our families. Yes, Monica, you are correct ? although the use of this graphic is not meant to be misleading. At the time, weeks after the disaster, this graphic was used as a visual representation of the path and energy of the ocean movement which would carry radioactive particles. This is the purpose for which I have used it since. The fact that radiation has been carried by both wind and water continually since the initial event, I think gives further credence to understanding the movement of radioactive substances in this general way. Although not technically accurate, it is a reasonable representation. What?s more, government authorities and official advisories have been almost silent since the disaster. I would very much like to use updated visual representations, but they have not been made available.