The operator of Japan's crippled nuclear plant said Friday that it delayed acknowledging that the plant was leaking contaminated water into the sea because it did not want to worry the public until it was certain there was a problem.Full story A Japanese utility said Monday its crippled Fukushima nuclear plant is likely leaking contaminated water into sea, acknowledging for the first time a problem long suspected by experts. Full story Japan's nuclear regulator says radioactive water from the crippled Fukushima power plant is probably leaking into the Pacific Ocean, a problem long suspected by experts but denied by the plant's operator. Full story epa03797887 A photo taken on 17 July and made available on 23 July by Tokyo Electric Power Co. , shows the extraction of contaminated water from a manhole at the crippled Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in Okuma, northeast of Tokyo, Fukushima Prefecture, Japan. On 22 July, TEPCO admitted that Tokyo Electric Power Co. 's tsunami-crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant No.2 reactor building is seen from a bus window in Fukushima prefecture in this February 20, 2012 file photo. High levels of a toxic substance called strontium-90 have been found in groundwater at the devastated Fukus Members of the media and TEPCO employees walk alongside a wall lined with thousands of paper cranes during a media tour at Tokyo Electric Power Company's tsunami-crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Fukushima prefecture June 12, 2013. REUTERS/Noboru Hashimoto/Pool JAPAN - Tags: DISA An aerial view shows Tokyo Electric Power Co.'s tsunami-crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Fukushima Prefecture in this March 11, 2013 file photo. REUTERS/Kyodo/Files An aerial view shows Tokyo Electric Power Co.'s tsunami-crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Fukushima Prefecture in this March 11, 2013 file photo taken by Kyodo. Indonesian and Australian coal exporters are moving aggressively to fend off competition to meet Japan's new-found appetit Juan Carlos Lentijo , head of review mission from International Atomic Energy Agency and members of the mission are greeted by the plant chief Takeshi Takahashi at Tokyo Electric Power Co. 's tsunami-crippled Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in Fukushima, in this handout photograph taken by T