WSJ: Extreme contamination found at Fukushima plant ? Cesium over 2 billion Bq/liter; Millions of times above limit ? Tepco ?trying? to stop it leaking into ocean ? ?Probably? from melted reactor core Extremely high concentrations of radiation have been detected in water from near one of the reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, [Tepco] said Saturday. [?] The radiation is millions of times higher than Japan?s acceptable limit under normal circumstances. Radiation of 750 million becquerels a liter of cesium-134 and 1.6 billion becquerels a liter of cesium-137 was recorded, Tepco said. [?] In April 2011 a combined 1.8 billion becquerels was recorded. [?] The sample came from a trench near the No. 2 reactor turbine building, the utility said. [?] Tepco is searching for the water source. It is probably from one of the damaged reactor cores. It is trying to stop the water leaking into the sea, it said. [?] Kyodo News, July 27, 2013: Tokyo Electric Power Co. said Saturday it has detected 2.35 billion becquerels of cesium per liter from water in an underground passage at the crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant that is seeping into the sea [?] The trench, which is believed to be the source of the latest water leakage into the sea, is located below the No. 2 reactor turbine building. [?] Asahi Shimbun, July 27, 2013: ?We believe the highly radioactive water is staying within the pit,? a TEPCO official said, adding that the utility will nevertheless check carefully for possible leaks into surrounding soil and seal the ground to block such leaks from reaching the sea. ?Crisis? at Fukushima plant ? Tepco: Extremely radioactive water leaking directly into groundwater and going into oceanFukushima trench water crisis returns The trench is believed to be the source of the groundwater problem that?s been baffling Tepco?s experts for months. Their current theory is that the highly radioactive water found and left in the trench in 2011 is now leaking directly into the groundwater, which is seeping into the sea. [?] A WW3 is at wurst a decade long war, with millions dead, and massive material costs, but this wars will dwarf against Fukushima. Fukushima and the amount of Plutnium and aprox 1200 different Isotops, some witch are even MORE dangerous than Plutnium, and a huge part of them have a halftime of milleniums, and after milleniums they are still dangerous and lethal. The damages to DNA/Cellstructures, is beyound imagination. There is confirmed 3 meltouts aka Chinasyndromes, and right now we have no idea, nor any info about anything and what litle we gett is pure bullshitt. And abve this, all the fish tested so far, taken out of the Pasific, ALL are cntaminated, every f?. fish. The fact that the Govs are babbeling about the amount of legal levels, and their rising of them, based on the tests, confirms the fact that this Fishes, is freschly cntaminated and the result sould frighten anyone, the ecmomic aspects are staggering. And of curse, with this ecommic downfall, nobody wants a second cluster f?.. to evolve. So we nodd along and turn our heads to look another way, the stupidest thing we as a speacie could do, the moust dangerous acident ever happened on ur planet. SO they/we berried this in coverups and downplaying everything. The presenet TEPCO and their leaders sould be hanged from the nearest lamp post, the only punishment sutable to this magnitute of crimes. Capital crimes must be met with capital punishment. Hang them all.