Prince William, the Duchess of Cambridge and royal baby Prince George have left Kensington Palace in London for the seclusion of the Middleton home on the countryside. After spending their first night away from the hospital at Kensington Palace, the new parents loaded up their newborn son into their SUV and left bustling London for a mansion in Bucklebury, Berkshire, which happens to be where the common-born Kate Middleton's parents Michael and Carole Middleton live, the Daily Mail said. This is now private and quiet time for them to get to know their son, a palace rep told Us Weekly after they arrived safely at the Middleton home. The future king was born Monday in the Lindo Wing of St. Mary's Hospital. On Tuesday, Wills and Catherine, both 31, debuted their son just outside the hospital. And on Wednesday, the new parents announced the boy's regal name: George Alexander Louis. His formal title will be His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge.?George's parents, William and the former Kate Middleton, became the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge when they married in April 2011, and prior to the name announcement, he was simply known as Baby Cambridge. The little guy is third in line to the British throne, just after grandpa Prince Charles and dad William. Prince Harry was relegated to fourth in line once Baby George was born. The infant is already a trendsetter, just as mom Catherine and late grandmother Princess Diana were before him. The Aden & Anais bird-print blanket he was swaddled in when he made his debut has reportedly sold out, while the merino wool christening blanket by G.H. Hurt & Co. seems to be on back order, All the Rage reports. His name is also expected to go viral, so to speak, with several new parents in the U.K. expected to name their sons George too, just as the names William and Harry received a surge in popularity when they were named three decades ago, Ancestry.com reports via People . George is expected to be bolstered from 12th place to fourth place on the list of most popular names. By George, we think they've got it.?