The new heir to the throne is officially here! After 10 hours of labor, the royal couple welcomed their bundle of joy at 4:24 p.m. on July 22 at St. Mary?s hospital in London, and the fanfare has commenced. Congrats to the new royal parents! After some of the biggest baby anticipation in history, Kate Middleton and Prince William?are finally proud parents to a baby boy! The royal couple welcomed HRH Prince of Cambridge on July 22 in London at St. Mary?s hospital, and the royal couple could not be more excited to be first-time parents! Prince William & Kate Middleton?s Baby Born! The baby boy?arrived at 4:24 p.m. local time on July 22?at St. Mary?s Hospital, more than 10 hours after the couple checked into the hospital early that morning. The bundle of joy weighs 8 pounds, 6 ounces, and the proud new dad was present for the birth. Kate gave birth in the Lindo Wing of St. Mary?s Hospital, the same wing where Princess Diana gave birth to William and Prince Harry. The crowd outside of the hospital was waiting with bated breath ? some had been camped out for weeks ? until the good news was delivered on July 22. Per royal tradition, Kate had a natural delivery, although there was no word on whether or not she bravely forwent an epidural. Luckily, mom and baby are doing well, and are staying at the hospital overnight! Kensington Palace officially released a press release to announce the royal baby?s birth on July 22: The baby weighs 8lbs 6oz. The Duke of Cambridge was present for the birth. The Queen, The Duke of Edinburgh, The Prince of Wales, The Duchess of Cornwall, Prince Harry and members of both families have been informed and are delighted with the news. Her Royal Highness and her child are both doing well and will remain in hospital overnight. The medical staff present were Mr. Marcus Setchell, Surgeon-Gynaecologist, Mr. Guy Thorpe-Beeston, Obstetrician and Dr. Sunit Godambe, Consultant Neonatologist at St Mary?s Hospital. The names of the baby will be announced in due course. We?re SO excited the royal baby is here! We can?t wait to see the first glimpse of the little boy!?Are YOU excited the royal baby has arrived, HollyMoms? This site is one thing that is needed on the internet, sommeone with a little originality!