Earlier in the day Queen Elizabeth II went to Kensington Palace to see the newborn as well as uncle Harry. CNN reports that the family left the palace after lunch time and are currently in the village of Bucklebury ? where Catherine?s parents live. British bookmakers Ladbrokes had George and James as favorites Wednesday, followed by Alexander, Arthur, Louis and Henry. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, both 31, welcomed George at St. Mary?s Hospital on Monday in London at 4:24 p.m. He weighed 8 lbs., 6 oz. at the time of his birth. I don?t really have anything against the name George. I?m just bored and irritated by the whole ?future King? thing. We fled monarchy and created a new country so we could be free to elect our leaders. It?s kind of hypocritical that we?re all cooing to the new King of England now. I didn?t mean common in the way I imagine you took it ? I meant it is more popular now than it has been. It?s not seen as old and stuffy anymore. People should be able to call their kids what they want to, but there was never any chance of Spencer being in there, and the fact that I think King Spencer sounds stupid doesn?t make me close minded. It just means I think it sounds stupid? reply to anonymous below ? erm, no, it didn?t have to be a traditional name for me to like it ? and for the record, I?m not wild about George. I don?t see why the fact that I don?t like Spencer as a name means I?m closeminded. I just don?t like it. Doesn?t mean I wouldn?t like a different name that wasn?t one of the ones the Royals tend to pick. It was never going to be James ? that?s her brother ? and Spencer is not traditional enough for a Christian name. This is the British royal family after all ? it was never going to be anything less than standard for the royals . Might be disappointing to many, but there it is. Glad they look so happy ? can?t imagine it was what they wanted to do, to bring him out in front of all of those cameras, the noise, and the flashes. For those remarks talking about a tribute to the Spencers ? as far as names go, there would never have been a ?nod? given to the Spencer side of William?s family. The Royals have been around a while, they know what they are doing when it comes to naming future Kings and Queens. For example ?Edward? would not have even made the name list because of the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII. I think George is a little too popular here in England, I would have liked to have seen Alexander or James but that?s my choice not theirs. The media will no doubt be calling him Georgie or Georgie-boy before he starts toddling. And I will cringe Anyway, at least he?s not named Charles/nn Charlie.