Close sources say the Queen is unlikely to make suggestions for a name for the third in line to the throne. But as many prime ministers and royal advisers have discovered, the slightest raised eyebrow from Her Majesty will indicate the couple should think again. It was expected the name would be revealed soon after the meeting. The Queen, who arrived in a dark green Bentley, has said she is ?thrilled? by the arrival. On Friday the Queen goes to Balmoral for her traditional summer break. Prince Philip will not see his great grandson until later as he is recuperating at Sandringham, the Queen?s Norfolk estate, from exploratory surgery. The Queen is expected to join the Duke of Edinburgh before they both travel to Scotland. The next big royal family gathering in London will be for the christening of the baby after the Queen returns to Buckingham Palace. The christening, to be conducted by the Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby, will take place in the Music Room of Buckingham Palace, as it was for Prince William and Prince Charles. ? Royal debut: the new Prince makes his first public appearance Picture: PA William and Kate, both 31, are expected to travel to Kate?s parent?s Berkshire home in Bucklebury, where they were staying before the birth, at the weekend. Thames Valley Police and Scotland Yard have made contingency plans to ensure the security of the second and third in line to the throne. William is keen to bond with his son during his two weeks paternity leave from his job as a RAF Search and Rescue Pilot based at RAF Valley in Anglesey. First trip: the new Prince travelled from the hospital in Paddington to Kensington Palace Kate is expected to stay with her parents, Michael and Carole, when William returns to work. But the couple are understood to have been invited by the Queen to stay with the rest of the royal family at Balmoral over the summer. It will be the first chance for Philip to meet his great grandson. A source told the Standard: ?The first priority is for the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge to bond with their baby. ?The grandparents have all met the baby and obviously Prince William is mindful that Her Majesty is also very excited to meet the new arrival. ?Everything will be arranged to facilitate that at the earliest opportunity at a venue that is convenient and private,? the source said. In safe hands: the proud parents left hospital on Tuesday evening Picture: PA The amount that has been wagered on the royal name for ?Baby Cambridge? is around ?1 million. There is no set in stone rules for naming a future monarch and direct heir to the throne but more traditional names are expected for those in direct line of succession. As the Evening Standard revealed yesterday the couple wanted to see their son?s ?little face? before making a decision. George is the bookmakers? favourite at 7/4, ahead of James 4/1 , Alexander 8/1 , Henry 12/1 and Louis 12/1 .