The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are delighted to announce they have named their baby: Prince George's full title is: A beautiful and fitting name for a future King, what do you all think? During the couple's brief chat with the press yesterday evening, BBC reporter Peter Hunt asked William if the baby's name was George, to which the proud father replied: Wait and see. Wait and see. When the Prince inherits the throne it is likely he will reign as King George VII unless Charles or William choose it as their name as Sovereign. William and Kate had to take tradition into account when choosing a name. It had to be suitable for a Prince and future King, and of course a name both parents felt happy with. I think it's the perfect choice and it pays homage to the Windsor family. The Queen's father was King George VI and grandfather George V was the founder of the House of Windsor. I expect the couple told Her Majesty when she met Prince George at Kensington Palace this morning, and no doubt she was immensely pleased. More from royal commentator Victoria Arbiter. The Telegraph?shared this. So freaking exciting! I love the name George and that it honors Queen Elizabeth's father, King George -- truly a great king. Best, Anne www.bentonandtilley.com I like all the names they chose for the future king but I was secretly hoping they would have gone non traditional and named him Spencer or something like that in honor of Prince William's mum. I like how the Name came together. Elizabeth Alexandra Mary => Charles Philip Arthur George => William Arthur Philip Louis => George Alexander Louis It is a traditional, dignified name. Wish they had honored the ailing Prince Phillip instead of using Louis, who is already well represented in the Royal Family. I had been thinking how Diana mixed up Charles's names during their vows and wishing they'd give him a cheeky nod to her by naming their little prince Phillip Charles. It's been quite a long time since England was at war with Spain, after all ;- Very much agree, I would have preferred a nod to Prince Phillip, and also that they had used Albert, Elizabeth's father's given name instead of his coronation name. And no mention of Elisaid Welsh male version of Elizabeth . Good visual, Beth. : I like the way they arrived at the name too. I also think it's nice that they streamlined it by giving the baby three names rather than four. Greybird K... Prince Philip's grandfather was George and his uncle was Louis Mountbatten. Awwwww sweet! Precious baby: Wow I knew it! What a Royal name! Beautiful! Charlotte, I know your excited too because the blog title says Princess accidentally!! I had a feeling it would be George in honor of The Queen's father. I wonder why they gave him three names instead of four? I personally would have preferred Alexander as a first name, still a lovely name and doesn't have previous Kings attached to it. Me too. George is very traditional. But no surprise. I like that they picked three names. William has four, Kate has two.. And Queen Elizabeth has three like the future king : Actually, Alexander was rather traditional name of Scottish kings - which perhaps wouldn?t be very suitable as a first name for King of United Kingdom, especially if Scottisch secession happens this autumn. But I like the name and I like Louis too. George wasn?t my favourite one,it was James, but the truth is that when I look at this baby, George is so fitting for him, he simply IS little Georgie: Also James is Kate?s brother and viscount Severn too, George is definitely better as there is right now nobody in the family with this name, which is very symbolic and traditional for Windsors . I like too they picked three names,and in nice combination. If they wanted to include nods to every part of the families, he would have had ten names and still there would be someone who knows better : so welcome little Georgie! :-xxx I agree! I think Alexander would have been a nicer first name choice-despite Scottish history! George just seems very traditional and I was hoping Kate and William would keep up their ''modern royal reputation when naming their son! Kate looks stunning for a woman who has just given birth! I wish them all the best. Any mother with great taste in a bespoke dress, make-up and professional blow-out would look stunning after giving birth. @philly- You too would want to look your best if you had hundreds of cameria in your face right after you had a baby and was in labor for 10 to 12 hours. @ Pauline--I'd want to look my best even if I didn't have hundreds of cameras in my face and whether I'd been in labour or not. Majtkirambo's surprised exclamation that Kate looks stunning is no real surprise, that's all. I do not begrudge the Duchess all that goes into making her look amazing. What a lovely way to honor William's family, although I admit to wishing the little Prince had James as a fourth name, to include Kate's family... No wonder the Queen was beaming from head to toe. Besides a beautiful baby his name is George like her dad's. A bit surprised the statement came so soon : but I would prefer Alexander or Louis as his first name. George might be a name for an older man, but for such a little cute boy...I'm not sure. But well, it is how it is. My congratulations again to William and Kate!! That was my first thought too but little babies grow up one day and I think George is ok for a grown up man. Georg is a name for an older man in Germany, but in Britain George seems to be a rather popular name for babies ; We will get used to George : Can't wait for the release of some official photos. He is just so cute! You do a wonderful job with your blog- I love it. I will say there's no guarantee that the baby will reign as George VII- I think there's a strong chance that Prince Charles chooses George as his king name. Possible, especially since the others who reigned as Charles don't offer auspicious or illustrious association historically. I like that name even though I would have preferred Alexander as a first name too maybe it's because I want to name my future baby boy Alexander :D . Nevertheless, I think the name is very appropriate and it pays tribute to the history of the Royal Family! Welcome to the world, little George :- George is a great name--both my husband's and my family tree are full of Georges and all good men. Like all three names. Jean not to put a damper on things but, still so curious what you think of Anne's responce to baby. We can talk more later when there is more down time. I don't want to be a bummer on this special moment. Sarah, I put it in a post somewhere over the past couple days, but I thought Anne's comment was odd and awful. What does she mean by it has nothing to do with her? Maybe I am misunderstanding her, but it is her great-nephew and future king. I do not know much about Princess Anne, but I don't see her as a warm or loving person at all. She seems quite grumpy to me. Sophie Wessex was so happy and had a smile from ear to ear. She had such kind words to say....think she said she was ridiculously excited. :- Hope I didn't put a damper on Prince George's special introduction, but felt the need to comment. @Sarah from Calif.- I was really taken back by Anne's comment too. It just show's how cold she can be. I always thought she was a very cold person. You never see her smile or even talk to Kate when they are together. And to say it does effect her, that is not true. Prince George will be King when her grandchildren are alive. And Prince George is now a memeber of the royal family. So I have not figured this woman out. It's very odd. I'm trying to think the best here and maybe she was detracting the attention from herself. Hmmmm or possibly a bad hair day. Sarah, I too was quite struck by this kind of comment. The Princess Royal is nowadays quite well liked in Britain as she is doing a lot of charity work. Sounds as if she was annoyed about something maybe too many journalists pestering her the whole day? but still, it certainly wasn?t appropriate at all.... Eve @ Sarah--Thanks for the laugh. Every day is a bad hair day with Anne. She could be a stunning woman if she got a great hairdresser. As I have written somewhere on here before, while it does sound somewhat hostile towards the Cambridges, I think the hostility was actually meant for the journalists. I can imagine Anne being beleaguered by them all day, being asked questions about the baby. I personally think that Anne doesn't like to get too much attention, especially not by the press. She probably would just like to go about her work without being constantly asked about her family. And she does work very hard! I read somewhere that she has the highest number of engagements of any of the Royals maybe except for the queen per year. She is known to be quite blunt and sometimes even rude. She probably gets that from her father ; But I don't think this necessarily means that she's cold-hearted. Perhaps it just means that she doesn't like to put her true feelings on public display. Sarah, Princess Anne is a bit like her father and says what she thinks---made her quite unpopular at first, but of course she is a very hard worker and people here appreciate that. To be fair, the reporter congratulated her on the birth of the little prince and she said it was nothing to do with her---which I suppose technically speaking it wasn't--but must say I got very excited at the birth of my great nieces and nephews. I have no proof of course, but have often thought that the Princess resented having to give way to her much younger brothers. She refused a title for her husband, which would have given titles to her children, but wonder if she would have refused one for herself which would have had the same effect. We cannot know--but no Princess in the future will have to give way to younger brothers and hers are so very much younger. I would also think that Anne has not enjoyed having to give way to her brothers so often throughout her life. All just because she was born a girl. I could imagine that this has led her to work as hard as she did and still does. Yet the focus is never on her. I don't think it's the attention she is after, but rather some sort of recognition that should have been hers since birth. But she's not one to whine, so she makes those arguably rude comments... It doesn't do her reputation any good, of course, but at least she's not pretending. Jean, I know that any first-born would now have become the heir to throne but does that also mean that Kate and William's child will be next in line, no matter if it's a girl or a boy? That is how I understood your last sentence... and does it also mean that children will be able to get a title from their mother? I have to admit that I was hoping for a girl, as she would have made history. But perhaps George will have a lovely daughter one day and this path will be hers to walk : Thank you Jean , Anon and ladies , I do try to strive to believe the best in people. She is a very hard worker and doesn't seem to want to mess around with the news side of it. journalist &photographers although diplomacy is always a very good ticket to carry in ones pocket but , what do I know I'm not hounded out and about just running out for groceries thank goodness I too would have preferred Alexander as a first name but George was the Queen's father and I can imagine Her Majesty's joy. Also as stated, the Queen's middle name is Alexandra, so Alexander is a tribute paid to her. And Louis for Lord Louis Mountbatten, Prince Charles's uncle. All classic but beautiful names I would say: Long live HRH Prince George Alexander Louis of Cambridge! Monica, France Charlotte - great job on this blog! I had a feeling William & Kate would tell the Queen the name first and then make the announcement. A very regal name indeed. I can't believe it!! Since day 1 I thought it would be a boy named George! Of course many more people have guessed it right too, but still!! So cool! As an English name, George has always been my favourite! And I really like his middle names too! I am quite surprised they have already told us the baby's name! I expected it would be a much longer await! Thank you, Charlotte! Hugs, Ana B. from Brazil LOVE the name George and very fitting. Definitely a strong dynastic and family name. I think the Queen will feel honored and very pleased with Prince George. Love saying it....Prince George!!! :- I am also a huge fan of Alexander and the ties with it being the male form of Alexandra. Wondering if a princess had been born if she would have been Alexandra? I was not surprised by Louis as Lord Louis Mountbatten was greatly loved by Prince Charles and William carries his name. Not surprised, but not a favorite. I was surprised to not see Phillip as part of the name and or a nod at all to Kate's family. Any word on why they only chose 3 names instead of 4? Seems most heirs have 4 or more. That might be a Jean question.... :- So, love HRH Prince George of Cambridge. Right now, I will stick with call him beautiful and cutie pie! As with all babies, don't you just want to cuddle and kiss him? William and Kate, excellent job!!! I like that the 3 names bookend quite nicely with the Queen's 3 names. Elizabeth Alexandra Mary George Alexander Louis They vary--the Queen has 3---Princess Margaret had only 2--but Edward VIII, who abdicated had seven! Three is quite enough and these three fit together nicely--only trouble are the initials GAL---I suspect that might be his nickname at school. Oh Jean, that's hilarious and awful all the same!!! I hadn't realized that!!! I think you might be right that there will be some teasing in his future....future king or not!!! :- I had the same thought, Jean! :o That's sonething to be considered when choosing a baby's name. My favorite girl's name was always Erin Elizabeth but I quickly abandoned it when I realized my daughter's initials would've been EEK! ;o Julie Sooo traditional. A bit disappointed but I understand. Well, I too I would have preferred Alexander as a first name... George is a perfect name for a future King, very high flown but in my opinion Alexander was a better choice...but I like Louis, and the name together sounds very well. I agree with Dougies girl, It would have been wonderful to see Kate's family included. They have all the freedom now to load the next child with the Middleton names. No rush. I was pulling for Phillip, but I like George, too. I had forgotten that George is the patron saint of England and slew the dragon and all that good stuff! --so it's a special name, honoring Britain's ancient heritage--as well as the Windsor Georges of the twentieth century, who heroically guided Britain through the dark days of two world wars and a global depression. Here in the US the Hanoverian George III doesn't enjoy a stellar reputation, but my native state of Georgia is named for George II. So I'm proud! I also like Louis, since that is my husband's name! We, however, place the accent on the LOU and pronounce that final S. I noticed when Kate and William took their vows that they used the French pronunciation Lou-EE . Is that the usual pronunciation in Britain? I think it's beautiful either way. Yes Louis is pronounced Lou ee and Lou is as u said above wound be lewis in uk! Slightly disappointed with George, was hoping for more of a modern name understand the tradition but bit boring all the usual names. Charlotte could you explain why the kings take on a different name and not use generally the one they were christened with ? The name Louis is French in origin and the British seem to have stuck with the original French pronounciation of 'Lou-eee'. Lou-EE is so much nicer. Avoids the sibilant s. Names that hiss don't sound great. Dragons? Were there ever really any? Seriously does anyone know a positive yes or no with scientific proof. Lynn, I was pulling for Philip too. Can't complain though because I wanted a boy. You are so right about the Georges guiding them through the dark days. There are fantastic documentaries on You tube for anyone interested. it is not a common name in Britain but we pronounce it in the French way of Lou-ee. Addendum: Tonight on the CBS national news in the US, when announcing the chosen names, the anchor Scott Pelley pronounced Louis with the soft S on the end, just as my husband pronounces his name. I would guess, based on their marriage vows, that Kate and William intend the pronunciation to be Lou-EE. How is the British press pronouncing the names? Granted, we probably won't hear the name Louis again until Prince George gets married, but I'm still interested. Thanks to all my British friends for the info on the British pronunciation of Louis. And somebody needs to inform the US media! I like your way--and I've been calling my Louis Prince Lou-EE all day! He thinks I'm nuts, for sure. Sarah from California, I always thought the dragons were just a legend--but St. George and the Dragon definitely holds a sacred spot in British yore. P.S. I prefer many British pronunciations to the American ones: privacy, vitamins, aluminium, zebra, and on and on. And I really love the verb whinge. We don't use it. We just say whine, and that's doesn't say it all, does it? Very glad they decided to name their child after one of the Weasley brothers. Excellent way to show British pride. Ha! This made me giggle. ; And we do know how much Will, Harry, and Kate all seem to enjoy Harry Potter! Funny you mention that -my first thought was the opening scene of the movie Sabrina, and the fish named George.. you win comment of the day : This comment has been removed by the author. While we're on the subject of movies and Parker - Boardroom Belles, I loved your comment! , the first time I ever heard poppet was in one of my favorite movie series, The Pirates of the Caribbean. When I read Charlotte's earlier post today, I immediately remembered hearing that in reference to Elizabeth Swann Keira Knightley when one of the pirates found her hiding in the closet! I love learning new words and their meanings. Rachel from Arizona So I know the 'of Cambridge' is because his parents are duke and duchess of Cambridge, so will that 'of Cambridge' change thought his life. Do royals have last names? Well I think when William becomes King, he will probably become the Prince of Wales, as the heir to the throne usually does. Right now, Cambridge is sort of his last name, although technically 'Wales' as William is Prince William of Wales or 'Mountbatten-Windsor' could be used as well. At least that's what I think, I can't guarantee that it's true ; You did it again MS. Charlotte. So I will say HAIL HAIL HRH PRINCE GEORGE ALEXANDER LOUIS OF CAMBRIDGE. But right now I still like the name Baby Boy Cambridge...lol May you live a very happy life. YOU will be loved by your mommy & daddy and the rest of the world. You also will have alot of aunties & grandmas here on this great blog. Wot a luvly post pauline. I luv reading your posts they make me chuckle. I have to admit u Americans really seen to love r royal family more than us Brits do. What will we do to fill our days now? Guess we won't have any kate news for a while and quite right too. Best wishes to you. Bella Wiltshire. Hello Bella Wiltshire- Thank you for the nice comment. I just love the royal family. I have been following them for some years now. It all started with William's beloved mother. And my grandmother was from England. I am having Duchess withdrawals already. But Ms. Charlotte has given us a great place to come & share are feelings and love for this beautiful couple. So now when I am miss seeing the Duchess all I have to due is come to this page and see all the beautiful pictures of this couple and their very cute baby boy. I hope that everything has settled down now that the baby has been born. I read one day an article about the silver penny: No one knows as yet whether the royal baby of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge would be a boy or a girl but the Royal Mint is reported to be going ahead with minting of a ?5 silver 'St George' coin to commemorate the event . So it's a boy and his name George. Coincidence? I think some people from the royal staff knew earlier. That's a coincidence. England's patron saint is George. A bit disappointed with the name, i was hoping for Arthur or something else more regal. Also I was hoping Michael would be a third or fourth name to honor Kate's father. Thanks chica for the update!!xoxo Sorry to sound rude - but how could anything be more regal than George? When the Prince George of Cambridge eventually becomes the King of England, he will be King George the 7th following on from the Queen's father and grandfather - her grandfather being the founder of the House of Windsor . George is probably one of the most regal of names! I was hoping for Alexander for a first name but I think the name is definitely fitting of a Prince and future King. I also have to say that it's nice to see little moments of PDA between Duchess Kate & Prince William. The hand on her back and standing close when they were exiting the Lindo Wing makes them more relatable. We've seen little moments before but it just contines to show a much more personal view of them than we usually have when it comes to the royals. They truly are showing a modern monarchy, it's a step in a positive direction. It was so cute when William had his hand on her back on the steps. And they moved together after they had taken the steps, so cute : They were both very happy and proud. @Anonymous 11:16 Have you ever noticed that when William & Kate are out and about doing enagagements and they are standing together that they are always touching. Being an arm or shoulder, there is some part of their bodies touching. I think that is just so sweet. It is like they can not get enough of each other. But you will never see them holding hands during any royal engagement. It is really nice to see a royal not afraid to show how much he loves his wife. I wish them the best with their new baby boy. I love the nAme, it seems to me to be regal and dignified, perfect : It may be a bit soon....but I hope they have a girl next! Louise, Bath UK Welcome to the world HRH Prince George of Cambridge! Love it: I wouldn't be surprised if the next baby has a name honoring Kate's family. I'm sure with this one being the heir they wanted to do things properly and as was expected from them for a future king. Yes I was thinking that too. I really hope for Kate and her family they get the honor they deserve! They just seam so more relatabel then the royal family. I think little George is very lucky to grow up with a more ``normal`` background as well. Confess to being a bit disppointed. George is fine, I suppose, although a bit stodgy. But I would have liked to see the Spencer family more openly honoured, possibly by including the name of John, Diana's father. The royal family never seems to use surmames as given names so no Spencer. Louis may be intended to honour the Spencer side but it's rather ambiguous. Alexander must be personal perference as really doesn't tie in with the queen who was named for her great-grandmother or Princess Alexandra. Unfortunately, may rule this lovely feminine version out for future daughters. Also definately think Phillip's name should have been in there after his sixty plus years of work and it would have been nice to include Michael. Oh well.... Yeah I was for George Phillip Michael... but they must be happy! Anyone noticed that kind of sheepish laugh William gave when he was asked if they would name him George? I guess they knew they would! Not quite what I was expecting, I was thinking Alexander or Arthur but George is just as nice. I'm curious to know what they will call him for short??? Well, little George once again welcome to the world and may you have many many happy and healthy days before you! He will grow into the name George , but what could be his nickname in the meantime? Something sweet and endearing... Elizabeth I was wondering the same thing? I have a friend whose son's name is George and they call him Georgie. :- I think our Little Prince Charming should be called lovey or boo. I like cutie pie too. Those sweet baby cheeks are begging for a kiss and cuddle!!! :- I was also wondering what his nickname will be ;- George is a lovely, regal name, but a mouthful for a baby ! Prince Philips Grandfather was Alexander Louis Welcome little prince George to the world!! I do hope kate wills and baby relax and have a nice quiet time in Bucklebury. They do need this time to get to know their baby son in a quiet and tranquil surrounding. Kate looks so happy in the car with her little bundle of joy. Looking foward to seeing the future pics. I do hope he's like Wills..as he was a cute baby. Thanks for your wonderful blog charlotte. Actually, many thought that Diana would be commemorated in some way. Many suggested Spencer be used as a middle name or John and Francis. Why would they commemorate three people on William's father's side, and not at least one from his mother's side. He is half of Diana. However, if you really read in to it, you will see that each of the names that they chose are the names of Diana's nephews from each of her siblings : George Mccorquodale Sarah's only son , Alexander Fellowes Jane's only son and Louis Spencer Earl Spencers' oldest son . I imagine they wanted to announce the name asap totry not to drag out media interest. Now they can have some private time getting to know each other. Amen. Good point! Dear Charlotte, I just saw a couple of articles online in response to OK Magazine's comments on Kate's post baby body. I knew this would happen. Care to comment or weigh-in on the matter? I personally thought she looked beautiful. She was inspirational by showing the world what a normal woman looks like after delivering a baby, in spite of a culture that places so much pressure on women to look perfect. Hello Elizabeth, Over here OK wouldn't be considered very reliable at all. Kate looked radiant and exactly as a new mother should. My mother was telling me that's exactly how she looked after giving birth. I think what's so refreshing in this day and age of obsession with the perfect body is the fact it was obvious Kate's first priority is to take care of Prince George and enjoy her time as a new mother with William and her family. She has a very athletic, slender physique in general and will be back to that in no time but I don't think that's priority number one and I think that's wonderful. There's far too much pressure on women to lose the baby weight nowadays, it's a time for bonding with baby not dieting. Kate looks beautiful at the moment at the moment, the photos of her with William and Baby George are some of the loveliest I've seen. Charlotte, Absolutely, Absolutely ............ So true, Charlotte !!!! I bet you she'll be back to her normal size in less than a month, quite naturally, especially if she breastfeeds, which I have a feeling she is. I do hope the Duchess is NOT taking part in the general frenzy nowadays that you have to fit in size 0 like two weeks after giving birth!! If she?s breastfeeding I can assure you personal experience! that any surplus pounds will disappear like snow melting in the sun.... With a newborn needing you like every three hours or so you are so exhausted you will find it difficult to find time to eat at all... So great if you have some extra pounds to live on for the next couple of weeks... So media of the world , give the Duchess some peace and comment on other bodies - or better stop commenting about womens?s bodies at all.... *Very* well said, Charlotte! I agree, Charlotte! She proved to be a great role model by showing what women really look like after giving birth and being proud of it. The media so often creates unrealistic expectations and makes uncountable women feel bad about themselves for looking normal. I thought she looked splendid. Really, I have never seen her look so beautiful and happy : I don't think Kate has much weight to lose. She looked very thin to me--arms, neck, face, hips--even breasts. That post baby bump that has been so much commented upon is not real weight gain. It is consists of fluid and a stretched uterus that hasn't had time to recede back into its normal position. The bump will disappear of its on accord very shortly--especially if she is breast feeding. Robin Indiana USA So happy the baby was named so quickly. HRH Prince George of Cambridge love the name! Now the family is complete. William Catherine and George beautiful family. King George Alexander..... Has a nice flow, very regal indeed. Urgggh... Not a fan of George. Alexander, yes I like. But as I always say, he isn't my baby!! : Congratulations to the beautiful family! I hope they can enjoy all the privacy and rest they need! Kate looks lovely and so very fresh, bless her heart! I'd be in yoga pants and a ratty t shirt! d Is it true that Diana's three siblings named their first-born sons George, Alexander and Louis? If so, his name is a nice tribute to the Spencer family. Maybe some Middleton family names next time. I think they chose the names they liked. I don't think Alexander has any link to the Queen's 2nd name - apparently Catherine likes the name Alexander. I also believe that Louis will be an important name in the family for generations. Louis Mountbatten was and important family member who was murdered by the IRA - they hold his memory dear. I have to say, I was disappointed, at first. George seems a very grown-up name to me, and I don't care for the idea of calling a boy Georgie. But the more I repeat it, the more it grows on me, especially when I imagine saying it with a British accent. : That is so cute Jess. I wasn't fond of the name George either not my first choice , but you are right, it does sound so much better with an English accent. : My brother teases me so much about following the royal family that I sometimes speak to him in an English accent and give him the royal wave to just tease him right back. : We have fun with it, and I think he might actually be becoming a slight royalist himself after all these years. : I read an article this morning that the Seraphine dress Kate wore to Bucklebury is a nursing one and the company said she has ordered more. And, I have heard that Bucklebury has very stringent security right now. It would be so nice for Maxx from Bucklebury or someone from there to keep us all apprised of such things. I know I actually am concerned about the security around the Middleton spread. : It seems to me that some sort of state of the art security should have been put into place from the moment her parents acquired the property, and perhaps it is there, but the vast amount of current peripheral security might suggest otherwise. Maybe we will see garrisons of bear-capped soldiers doing a changing of the guard at their front gate. :0 And, in sharing about my conversation with the St. Andrew's coed, I met to say St. Sally's dorm. When I think of Scotland and things Scottish< I think St. Patty's Day I guess. In addition, I can't get my Iphone to cooperate in getting comments to this blog. So, I am using an old laptop instead and it gets the job done, just takes alot of patience. : Thank you again Miss Charlotte for a superlative blog and for providing a venue for all of us from around the world to learn, communicate, participate in history, and celebrate together. You do an outstanding job. I may be wrong but I think that Kate's parents purchased that property before she became such a high-profile person. I don't think it's an unsafe place to be but considering the masses of people & press that waited for them in front of St Mary's and Kensington Palace, they probably just want to be prepared for all possible circumstances. @Anonymous 17:12 I really don't think William would have his wife & new baby staying at the Middletons unless it was very secured. The first thing William would worry about is the security of his wife & baby. So I do believe no proof that there is the best secuity money can buy installed in the Middletons home and around their property. the Middletons purchased their current home after the royal wedding. And, Pauline I trust William has secured his family. I was questioning the intact covert security because the current overt security, the helicopters, mounted police, Jeeps with security men in their fields, etc. seems somewhat remedial to me, like somewhat of an afterthought. I pray you are right. : I love the name. I do wish Alexander was his first name but beggars can't be choosers! I love William's great grandfather and this is a fitting tribute to him. I wish they would have included a name to tribute Diana as well but that is ok. Secondly this name not only is a tribute to King George VI but also to Prince George duke of Kent I am sure. A four car convoy means to me that Kate will definitely have PLENTY of post-natal help and extra security. Carol, you had better throw a few more burgers on the barbie. : One article said a maternity nurse from St.Mary's would be with Kate and baby for a few days. Perhaps the nurse, in burgundy uniform, that followed her in and out of the hospital with Kate yesterday? AND, THE QUEEN,visited Kate and baby at Nott Cott! That's huge. The Queen doesn't do that. Yay Queen Elizabeth. : In addition to all that, I truly hope and do believe that the Palace collaborated with Carole and Michael Middleton to stringently secure their new home and grounds, knowing that three current HRH's at least and future kings and a queen would be staying there frequently. I met a girl from St.Andrews on a flight and she stays in the St. Patty's dorm building where William and Kate stayed and I asked her if she had been in Williams old room. She said their dorm mother stays there and the toilet was bomb proofed. poor William. SO thankful he found Kate. : That's a very interesting story about William's room in St. Andrews! Thanks for sharing! Rachel from Arizona Personally, I was hoping for James, myself. James Alexander Louis has a nice ring too...oh well. Here's an interesting point that another commenter on another site brought up: Each of Diana's siblings has a child called one of the names -- one has a child named George Lady Sarah McCorquodale , one named Alexander Jane Fellows and one named Louis Charles Spencer . I wonder what, if any of the names have a relationship to Kate's side of the family -- I couldn't find any amongst either side's grandparents. I thought for sure, they would have a nod to the Middleton side. Well i love the name they take it tradionally and to honour the queen father im always love alexander maybe the second child will be they have consider middleton its simple and tradional i like name they actually do that but im quiet surpise the 2 days they tell the press and world Oh my goodness my head is spinning with names. Very interesting discussion. After reading through all of the comments about the new baby's name, I have come to the conclusion that for almost any name they would have chosen, you could come up with an association. With names so often repeated, it was bound to happen. I can't relate to having so many names, but I guess it's tradition, at least for the royals. I don't even have a middle name and I am thankful for that. No confusion as to what my name really is! And thankfully I love my given name! In my opinion, many non-royals get carried away with names and I personally dislike it when people name their kids after their own names. Aren't there enough names out there to choose from? Rachel from Arizona really pleased for these two normal lovely young people and their son - all happiness but George as a name is dull ....they had the chance to reinvigorate the line. a well researched, historical name with imagination...it is possible. Wish Diana was here to share in it all. George is a cute name for a boy and a very regal name fits for a king. But i wish the name is George Alexander James Louis. The current name is ok, and the baby is sooo cute.. Cant wait to see the official photo! Liz from Kuala Lumpur Hi Charlotte, I was so pleased when you updated your post about the shawl, apparently Good Morning America mentioned the company - do they read your blog or the knitting forums?? The company have put out a press release: http://www.sourcewire.com/news/78936/william-and-kate-s-royal-baby-shawl The product is also showing a note about taking a while to fulfill orders due to demand. Keep up the good work, knitting/kate enthusiast x Maybe the are saving Alexandra for their future baby girl. Well i think they are saving name alexandra i always love his name prince george alxander louie of cambridge well i known many people name it before their great grandfather sometimes its related to mom and dad combine im please with name in other topic Ok!magazine tells duchess post baby weight i think cray because i love the duchess now and before of her pregancy the duchess is enjoying her time being caring and noting parent of prince george i see this coming i thing its imature to say the duchess post body watch is next I'm a firmly believe parents should never discuss the baby's name until it has already been named. Everyone has an opinion, and the only opinion that matters is the mom and dads. That being said, you can't help making name associations. My first, as was mentioned previously, was the Weasly twins. It doesn't matter that they are fictional, the Weasly's are among my favorite British families. The next was the Beatles. I guess that shows how American I am, I jumped right to the two biggest British exports. But as with any new baby, Prince George will soon own his own name, and future associations will be based on his own accomplishments : I firmly believe . Silly autocorrect. Palace says the duke and duchess of cambridges choice the name prince george alexander louie when they arrive at hospital there nothing to with the queen said palace meanwhile aunt pippa said the she loves kid and she delighed new arrival of her sister baby i hope they enjoying their quality time with prince george with private time with him i know they will fantastic parents as said before Thank you so much for your great coverage during these last several days! I'm so glad I stumbled across your blog several months back! I wonder why they didn't choose a 4th name ? I do love the name they have choosen though. So now the media is parked outside the Middleton's. Good grief. There should be a law stating it illegal to take pictures of people on their own property unless invited. Bah humbag Please will someone get the Duke and Duchess to check the correct positioning of Prince George in his car seat with Britax. I believe the baby needs to be placed in the seat unswaddled and with the straps over both shoulders and buckled together in front with a 2 finger space between it and the baby. The handle of the car seat needs to be down when in the car I really like all 3 names, it has a nice flow and I think the Queen will find it a touching tribute to her beloved father. My Nan was telling me about a week before Prince George was born how she can remember being told the news of King George VI death when she was a little girl at school in an assembly. She said people were in tears as they thought he was a wonderful King and she remembered how on her return home her mother ran out of the house all upset wondering if she'd heard the sad news. I believe he was very much loved by the people and I'm sure HRH Prince George of Cambridge will be too. Couldn't think of a more perfect name : Charlotte: I realize that you are probably exhausted from all the posting regarding HRH Prince George. I, however, am having withdrawals and am hoping it won't be long before there's more news/pics of Prince George & his delightful parents. I just love babies and especially Royal babies. Thank you for all you do!! I would bet that the Palace delivered a long list of approved names to them,also denoting which ones were approved as first names, and then William and Kate were decide all by themselves. It sounds like his style and something he might insist on. Hello Charlotte! Did we not have a contest of sex, name & weight? Perhaps I mis-read your posts as I don't see any comments posted talking about who won or came closest; obviously I was not paying attention. If we did have a contest that would have made more work for you, Charlotte - not my intention. I luv your blog, love the pictures outside the hospital - those are priceless!!! I do want the 3 of them to have the peace & quiet that the privacy of Bucklebury provides. I can live with the name George - George Washington was a cousin of Diana as I recall, correct me anyone. .... Happy Friday to All!!! I like the fact that he was named George after the Queen's father and Prince Phillip's grandfather, Louis after Lord Mountbatten who gave the exiled Prince Phillip a home base when his family fled Greece and who was Prince Charles beloved godfather, and Alexander because it sounds so Scottish and is in fact the name of Scottish kings and because Scotland is where the couple met. My third great grandfather was named Alexander, and I love that name. This is a lovely analysis. I hadn't thought of the Scottish/Alexander connection - but that is a nice thought. Even if this baby boy wasn't third in line to the throne and even if the names had no historical or familial significance it is simply a lovely name! Cx Charlotte may ask when wil be the christening of prince george there are many contenders of prince george godparents here lowdown love jessica hay is not a contenders love too see pippa james and prince harry will sure ball plus i love zara and peter or autumn here article Hello! I will have a segment on the christening shortly : Charlotte, I hope you can find and get permission to post the video or some still photos of Harry's christening with William and Zara misbehaving before the ceremony! It's hilarious! And Diana is stunningly beautiful! At William's christening she still looked a bit like a pretty school girl, but she is a gorgeous woman by the time of Harry's christening. I am sorely disappointed that only a replica of the ancestral christening gown will be used for Prince George. I wish they could use the real thing for this one baby. He is THE HEIR! Then they could retire it for the next three decades or so--and use the replica for the other royal babies who are not direct heirs. If they had asked me and shocking that they didn't : , I would have gone with George for HM's father Philip for William's grandfather and also a nod to sister Pippa whose given name is Philippa Michael Kate's dad Francis male form of Diana's middle name . Save Alexandra for the girl but I would lob in a vote for Caroline too a nod to mum Carole, and a name with precedence in English royal history, albeit an interesting one. In any event, the couple seem very happy and the baby is healthy and hope the rumors of a trip Down Under next spring are true! Hi Charlotte, What do you think about a post on Kate Loves Kids? It could help us get through Kate withdrawals. Hello Fifi, That's a wonderful idea, I have dozens of post ideas waiting to be written so I promise posting will be as regular as it is when Kate's doing engagements. In fact, the next post will be published within the hour : Hi from the pictures I think that Prince George looks like his father and uncle when they were born. I pictured him to have a head if gorgeous hair like Catherine's. : Anyway I can't wait to see him grow up. I hope he looks like his paternal grandmother. Have a great weekend! Love thus blog! : What would George do when he grows up?