Kenya?s President Kenyatta says has signed new security bill into law, says does not infringe civil liberties ? Reuters Prince William and Kate have announced the name of their newborn baby. He is to be George Alexander Louis and will be known as His Royal Highness Prince George of Cambridge. The name George had been the bookmakers? favourite for the new prince, who is third in line to the throne. The announcement from Kensington Palace brought to an end much speculation. The guessing game over the name was much shorter than the waiting game for the baby?s birth. Confirmation of the new name came just a day after the Duchess of Cambridge left hospital, and very quickly by royal standards. Six King Georges have worn the crown since George 1 came to the throne in 1714. The last, George VI, was the father of Queen Elizabeth and reigned from 1936 to 1952. Links to the past Alexandra, the female form of Alexander, is one of Queen Elizabeth?s middle names, and was also the name of the queen consort of King Edward VII at the start of the last century. Louis is one of William?s middle names, and was the given name of Prince Charles?s mentor and great-uncle Louis Mountbatten, who was assassinated by the IRA in 1979. The choice of name, which is relatively short by royal standards, does not necessarily mean the baby will eventually become King George VII. The queen?s father was christened Albert, but chose to be crowned as George VI. Safe and ordinary ?It?s interesting that they chose to go with just three names. It?s almost as if the royal family is coming down with ordinary people, who tend to have fewer middle names than monarchs,? historian Suzannah Lipscomb said. ?It is a name that none can find any problems with. George itself can?t be shortened in any obvious offensive way ? They?ve probably gone for something that is safe.? The names appeared to have no direct connection to the mother?s side of the family. ?They?ve kept it very simple by not trying to represent all parts of the family,? said royal historian Tracy Borman. 1 euronews live TV - News | euronews : the latest international news as video on demand 2 What will you ask US Senator John McCain? | euronews, world news 3 Watch: Passengers ?push-start? frozen plane in Siberia | euronews, world news 4 Le Pen: I admire ?cool head? Putin?s resistance to West?s new Cold War | euronews, interview 6 Which countries in Europe cause the most air pollution damage? | euronews, world news 7 Moldova pro-EU parties take narrow lead in elections | euronews, world news 8 Grenoble: Europe?s first ad-free city | euronews, world news 9 NATO joins search for ?Russian submarine? off Scottish coast | euronews, world news 10 European Union News | euronews: latest breaking news and headlines about European Union 11 Obama?s ?risky? immigration gamble | euronews, world news 13 Crude awakening: Romania?s Black Sea oil and gas finds fuel Europe?s energy hopes | euronews, reporter 14 Irony as organised crime prosecutor arrested for corruption in Romania | euronews, world news 15 The American Century comes to an end as China becomes the world?s largest economy | euronews, economy 18 Belgium?s former queen Fabiola dies at 86 | euronews, world news 19 Germans demand honour for Turkish woman beaten to death | euronews, world news 20 Chechen ?death? unit fighting with rebels in eastern Ukraine | euronews, world news