The US authorities have in effect trapped fugitive intelligence leaker Edward Snowden in Russia, President Vladimir Putin has said. But Mr Putin said Mr Snowden would leave if he was able to. The former intelligence systems analyst has been offered asylum in a number of Latin American states, but has no documents with which to leave the transit zone at Moscow airport. The US has charged Mr Snowden with leaking classified information. Mr Putin has refused to hand over the fugitive to the US authorities, but says he can only stay in Russia if he stops leaking secrets about US surveillance schemes. He said there were signs that Mr Snowden was changing his position . However, he added that Mr Snowden did not want to stay in Russia but wanted to take up residence in another country . 'No invitation' 	 Asked what Mr Snowden's future was, the Russian president said: How should I know? It's his life. He came to our territory without invitation. And we weren't his final destination... But the moment he was in the air... our American partners, in fact, blocked his further flight, he said. They have spooked all the other countries, nobody wants to take him and in that way, in fact, they have themselves blocked him on our territory. Mr Snowden has been stuck in the transit area of Sheremetyevo airport - reportedly staying at the airport's Capsule Hotel - since arriving from Hong Kong on 23 June. The American has sent requests for political asylum to at least 21 countries, most of which have turned down his request. However, Bolivia, Nicaragua and Venezuela have indicated they could take him in. But he is unable to leave the transit zone without asylum documents, a valid passport or a Russian visa - he reportedly has none of these. And some European countries are likely to close their airspace to any plane suspected of carrying the fugitive. At a news conference on Friday, Mr Snowden said he was seeking temporary asylum in Russia before he could safely travel to Latin America. However, Moscow officials say they have so far received no such request. Mr Snowden's leaking of thousands of classified US intelligence documents has led to revelations that the National Security Agency is systematically seizing vast amounts of phone and web data. The documents have also indicated that both the UK and French intelligence agencies allegedly run similarly vast data collection operations, and the US has been eavesdropping on official EU communications. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets CSS enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets CSS if you are able to do so.