This article was originally published by This Can't Be Happening. Edward Snowden, the bete noir of the US national security state, who has leaked information that the National Security Agency is spying on all electronic communications of Americans, and on hundreds of millions of others around the globe, as well as on the leaders and the embassies of even many US allies, is accepting an offer of political asylum that has been extended by Russia, where he has been spending weeks in limbo in Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport, unable to fly to asylum elsewhere because of heavy-handed US pressure. According to an RT-TV report [1], Snowden, in accepting the Russian offer, will have to abide by a condition set by Russian President Vladimir Putin that he not continue releasing documents harmful to the US. This deal leaves a lot of questions unanswered: First of all, Snowden has already turned over a huge trove of information to reporters at the Washington Post and the Guardian newspaper in the UK, as well as lesser amounts of documents to Der Spiegel magazine in Germany and to other publications in other countries. It would appear that he can no longer control, at this point, whether or not those news organizations continue to publish articles based on the documents in their possession, It is also unclear what the Russian government response would be concerning Snowden's protected status should any of those organizations, as is likely, continue to publish embarrassing or damaging disclosures about the NSA. Asked by reporters at an airport press conference whether he would continue to release details about the NSA himself while in Russia, Snowden's answer was simple: My job is done. That job, though, was providing the leaked information to reporters. Snowden himself has not publicly disclosed the information. Snowden also correctly pointed out the distinction between damaging America, and exposing the NSA. ?No actions I take or plan are meant to harm the US... I want the US to succeed,? he said in answer to a question. Would Putin consider further leaks about the US government?s spying on its own citizens ?damaging? to America? Open question. In any event, Putin has made clear that Russia would never extradite Snowden. As he put it, Russia has never extradited anyone and is not going to do so. Same as no one has ever been extradited to Russia. Besides, the cat's already out of the bag, in terms of the big revelations Snowden made public. The RT-TV report also suggests that Snowden and Russia may be looking at the asylum situation there as less than a lifetime arrangement. It appears to be a way for Russia to get him out of the airport, into Russia, to further tweak the US, and to put Snowden in an official status where he could be provided with travel documents as a matter of course, as would an asylum grantee in the US This could enable him to quietly leave Russia later for another location after some time has passed. The RT story significantly quotes Tatyana Lokshina of Human Rights Watch as saying Snowden is seeking to stay in Russia because he ?can?t fly to Latin America yet.? Three Latin American countries so far--Venezuela, Bolivia and Nicaragua-- have offered Snowden asylum without conditions, but he has been unable to safely travel to any of them, given the already demonstrated US threat to force his plane to land. American authorities exerted pressure on French, Portuguese, Italian and Spanish governments to refuse their airspace, in violation of international law, to a presidential plane carrying Bolivia's leader, Evo Morales, to fly home from a state visit to Russia, forcing it to land in Austria, where the government was pressed to illegally inspect the plane, which the US incorrectly suspected was transporting Snowden to asylum in Bolivia. At the airport conference, Snowden said he had accepted all three of those offers of asylum, as well as Russia's. ?I announce today my formal acceptance of all offers of support or asylum I have been extended and all others that may be offered in the future,? Snowden said, after meeting with human rights lawyers earlier.