George Zimmerman was charged with second-degree murder in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin. So why do jurors now have an option of convicting him of manslaughter? The short answer: the judge said they could. Yet the option, which was supported by prosecutors but raised the hackles of the defense, is not clearly spelled out in Florida law. And depending on the verdict, it could prove controversial. Some states, but not Florida, recognize what?s known as ?imperfect self-defense.? It applies when someone kills in self-defense but was overreacting and using excessive force. So a defendant can try to reduce a murder charge to manslaughter by saying that he acted in self-defense even while conceding that he made a mistake. Alternatively, ?imperfect self-defense? can offer prosecutors their best chance at a guilty verdict when a jury seems unlikely to convict a defendant of murder. Florida law works differently. There?s no slicing and dicing of self-defense. The penal code doesn?t recognize ?imperfect self defense.? The law forces juries to either believe that someone had a right to act in self-defense or is a murderer. There is a loophole, however, as illustrated by Mr. Zimmerman?s trial, which entered into closing arguments Thursday. In Florida, a judge can choose to give juries a middle-of-the-road option, saying it can convict someone of voluntary? manslaughter if it isn?t convinced that the defendant acted out of ?ill will, hatred, spite, or evil intent.? Voluntary manslaughter is a catch-all offense that includes a killing caused by ?culpable negligence.? Mr. Zimmerman, who didn?t testify, has said that he fired at Mr. Martin in self-defense and has pleaded not guilty to second-degree murder. Mr. Zimmerman?s lawyers balked at the judge?s instruction on Thursday, and for good reason, Charles H. Rose III, a professor at Stetson University College of Law, told Law Blog. ?It flies in the face of the theme and theory of the case presented by the state,? which argued that Mr. Zimmerman had evil intentions. But it may just be the best shot prosecutors have of scoring a conviction. That prosecutors wanted to include the manslaughter option is an ?indication of how weak their case has become,? Mr. Rose said. And its inclusion at the close of the trial could also give Mr. Zimmerman?s defense team grounds to appeal if he?s convicted, Mr. Rose added. And how does that square with the point made by University of Pennsylvania law professor Paul H. Robinson, who railed against what he called the ?all-or-nothing? concept of self-defense under Florida law? Law Blog wrote about Mr. Robinson?s argument here. Mr. Robinson told Law Blog that the court is twisting Florida law, which he said clearly doesn?t permit different shades of self-defense. ?It is not within the power of a court to substitute their own preference for that of the Legislature,? he said.