ST. LOUIS ? Organized by social media, several hundred people gathered downtown Sunday evening to march, chant and cheer speakers protesting the jury verdict in the fatal shooting of Trayvon Martin in Florida. The peaceful rally outside city jail, at 200 South Tucker Boulevard across from City Hall, filled the sidewalk, northbound lanes and median of the wide avenue. The racial mix of the crowd was roughly half black and half white. It was one of many demonstrations across the country to protest the acquittal on Saturday in Sanford, Fla., of local watch captain George Zimmerman in the killing of the unarmed Martin, 17. There also were rallies in Sanford, New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Washington and Miami. Missouri state Sen. Jamilah Nasheed, D-St. Louis and the main speaker downtown, said one woman?s Facebook post Saturday night spread throughout the metro area and inspired the rally downtown. ?I am still angry,? Nasheed said from the steps of the jail, formally known as the city Justice Center. ?This was a senseless death. Zimmerman took the law into his own hands. Had he not followed Trayvon, we would not be here today.? Among those in the crowd was Alvonia Crayton, of the downtown neighborhood, who has three sons ages 19 to 25. Crayton, who is black, said she attended on behalf of all young black men. ?African-American males are not safe anywhere,? Crayton said. ?This is supposed to be a country for everybody.? Rob Banks, 25, of Hyde Park, said he was protesting ?a system that is racist and classist. If you are a person of color, you are more likely to be harassed.? Banks is white. The event began with sidewalk marches and bullhorn chants. Hand-held signs? sayings included ?I am Trayvon? and ?OMG Please stop being so racist.? The Rev. B.T. Rice, a veteran area civil-rights leader, said he was inspired by the outpouring and impressed by the power of social media. Speaking of pre-Internet days, Rice said, ?We were happy when we could get 100 people down to the courthouse. There must be 400 or 500 people here, and this is just the beginning.? Nasheed said the gathering?s racial mix ?shows that we are not a divided city like people say we are.? St. Louis police stood by on the west side of Tucker and blocked traffic from the northbound lanes as the crowd grew. Chief Sam Dotson said, ?We want to make sure that everyone can express their First Amendment rights without infringing upon others.? The rally lasted more than an hour, followed by a march through downtown. A cloudburst at 9 p.m. sent most of the remainder heading for cover, but four people were arrested when they banged on the front door of the jail and wouldn?t leave. Demonstrations large and small broke out across the country Sunday. The NAACP and many protesters called for federal civil rights charges against Zimmerman in the February 2012 shooting, which unleashed a national debate over racial profiling, self-defense and equal justice. The Justice Department said it was looking into the case to determine whether federal prosecutors should file criminal civil rights charges now that Zimmerman has been acquitted in the state case. Meanwhile, President Barack Obama and religious and civil rights leaders urged that demonstrations remain peaceful. At Middle Collegiate Church in New York, many congregants wore hooded sweatshirts ? an item Martin was wearing the night he was shot. The Rev. Jacqueline Lewis, wearing a pink hoodie, urged a peaceful but vocal response. ?We?re going to raise our voices against the root causes of this kind of tragedy,? she said, adding, ?We?ll aim our fight for justice against the ease with which people can get firearms in this country.? At a youth service in Sanford, teens wearing shirts displaying Martin?s picture wiped away tears during a sermon at the St. Paul Missionary Baptist Church. About 200 people turned out for a rally in downtown Chicago. Maya Miller, 73. said the case reminded her of the slaying in 1955 of Emmitt Till, a 14-year-old from Chicago who was murdered by a group of white men while visiting Mississippi. Till?s killing galvanized the civil rights movement. ?Fifty-eight years and nothing?s changed,? Miller said. Hours after the verdict Saturday night, demonstrators gathered on U Street in Washington, chanting, ?No justice, no peace.? One protester carried a sign that read, ?Stop criminalizing black men.? In Miami, more than 200 people gathered for a vigil. ?You can?t justify murder,? read one poster. Another read: ?Don?t worry about more riots. Worry about more Zimmermans.? Civil rights leaders, including the Revs. Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton, urged peace in the wake of the verdict. Jackson said that the legal system ?failed justice? but that violence isn?t the answer. But not all the protesters heeded those calls. In Oakland, Calif., some demonstrators broke windows, burned U.S. flags and started street fires. In Los Angeles, police said a crowd of about 100 protesters surrounded an officer and eventually had to be dispersed by officers firing beanbag rounds. The Associated Press provided information for this article.