While I followed the events following George Zimmerman?s killing of Trayvon Martin quite closely, I paid scant attention to the trial itself. Partly, I was traveling quite a bit and wrapped up with work and family matters. Partly, because I hate the creepy, voyeuristic way these things are covered. But I had gathered that the prosecution handled a weak case poorly and that an acquittal should surprise no one; thus, I was not surprised. Your assessment is not less important than that of the jurors, but it is less informed. No matter how much of the trial you watched on CNN, those jurors almost certainly saw more of the evidence than you did. They held documents in their hands. They saw what the witnesses?and Zimmerman?were doing while not on camera. They were excluded from hearing evidence that the judge deemed inappropriate or inadmissible. They have been instructed on the specific components of the law. And, most important, they are the only ones who know what arguments are being used to persuade each other to reach a unanimous decision. Jurors must evaluate the evidence.?While both sides present opening and closing arguments, the central component of a criminal trial is the evidence. And in our system, that evidence is introduced through witnesses. If the prosecution has computer analysis that shows important information, it must call a computer analyst to the stand to explain how it was developed. Every physical thing is linked to a human representative. What this means is that the person and the evidence are inextricably linked. Jurors are asked to evaluate the witness as placeholders for the evidence. Not only in the case of eyewitness testimony?is the witness squirming in his seat? Does he seem believable??but in expert testimony, too. Credentials are considered, but so is the presentation. Did that doctor seem uncertain in answering his question? Did she qualify her analysis? When the camera in the courtroom shows the lawyer asking the question and not the witness answering it, you?re missing part of the evidence. Physical evidence also offer details not conveyed over the television. Tiny details?textures, discolorations, notes?can all be elements that play into the decision-making process jurors use. Those details may not be conveyed, even in high-definition. Then, of course, there is the response of the man on trial. What is George Zimmerman doing while the evidence is being presented? How is he reacting? Zimmerman is frequently shown during CNN?s boradcast, but not always. His demeanor is something the jurors must consider. Jurors only see evidence that?s admissible.?Criminal trials are not about guilt. They are about whether or not someone?broke a law. This is a very important distinction. Courtroom observers?and non-sequestered people following press coverage?know things that a judge might consider unduly prejudicial if presented to a juror. As a person watching from the outside, you are more than welcome to judge the defendant based on that evidence. But if the judge excludes it from consideration by the jury, there?s a reason, based in the law. Now, of course, juries sometimes get it wrong. Many innocent men have been found guilty and many people who plainly did what they were accused of doing are acquitted. In this particular case, there?s no doubt, reasonable or otherwise, that George Zimmerman killed Trayvon Martin, a teenage boy who did not deserve to have his life ended. But that wasn?t what the jurors were being asked to decide. Rather, they were charged with deciding whether Zimmerman committed second degree murder as defined by Florida statute. And, as contemptible as George Zimmerman is and?as outrageous as Trayvon Martin?s death is, it strikes me as pretty obvious that he did not, regardless of what one believes about what happened after the events we hear on tape end. The loss of Trayvon Martin?s life, everyone should and must agree, was horrible. But nearly as big a loss would be to consider the issues of racism and access to firearms and use of force now closed, resolved. They aren?t. They remain painful gashes in America?s complex and history-laden system of jurisprudence that the Trayvon Martin killing only broadened. And they deserve immediate attention and contemplation and study. Perhaps with the verdict in, and, in a few hours or days, some cooling off of the frustration and elation felt by those hoping for one verdict or the other, perhaps then we can return to these issues. It?s probable that the Martin killing forced these issues into the public conversation with an energy that prevented our considering them rationally and even-handedly. Once that furious energy dissipates, it is even a better time to figure out why Trayvon Martin is dead. It is important for America to figure out if Trayvon Martin is dead because he was black and because he was young. It is important for America to figure out if we should outsource our safety to armed civilians. We should pour resources into resolving those questions once the spotlight has passed ??examine the rates of homicide in communities of color and in Florida and the efficacy of ?stand your ground.? We should, of course, go further, looking at how and when and why America makes tacit and explicit distinctions between one group and another, or why some feel as though carrying a gun is important and vital and other find it frightening. @Hello World!: I guess you did not follow this trial at all .because there was another witness and that eye witness told the jury that they saw the thug martin on top of Zimmerman pounding him martial arts style and if that is not a good enough reason to shoot the thug ,I don?t know what is . and where did you get that martin was not violent. that is proven , suspendened from school for fighting and several other witnesses to martin fighting other people. who ever wrote this , waste of time article . was wating their time. the thug martin is dead because he attacked an armed person. and this only went to trial because of political motivation. they knew they had no chance of a guilty but want to show all americans that GUNS BE BAD, and even if you are right to use yours they will make trouble for you. Or maybe you mean a citizen concerned about his neighbors who while driving to the store sees someone acting suspiciously after the neighborhood had suffered a spate of burglaries, calls the non-emergency police number. Gets out of his truck to see where the person ran to, slows or stops when the operator discourages him following and is then assaulted by the individual. But even as he?s being beaten, tries screaming for help for 40 seconds an eternity in an imminent danger situation before resorting to using his firearm. So you are against people being involved in the community? One shouldn?t look for ?trouble? when neighbors have been forced to hide in fear in their own home due to home invaders? What about the Cambridge neighbor who called the cops in the Gates affair? Had they minded their own business, the police would not have been called, Gates would not have been upset and Obama would not have acted stupidly. Your overarching premise seems to be that free citizens should not have a sense of community, should not band together for their common defense and should depend solely upon the State for their security, assuming they are in good standing with the State. Oh, and pension obligations haven?t forced the reduction of the number of State employees available to arrive minutes or hours after the fact. The NAACP is already going after Zimmerman for civil rights violations, they say. Now, there is no secret about the idea that the NAACP and Holder have been in bed together forever. And the NAACP claims credit for the thing getting to trial in the first place. Martin was Obama?s son, after all. That said, though, remember that Civil Rights issues are at the root, CONSTITUTIONAL issues, and the Constitution is a limit on the government, not the people. Granted, this is a point leftists tend to ignore, or at least try to dance around. But bringing such a case against Zimmerman would get laughed out of even a Holder-ordered show trial. That would, if noting else, further damage the credibility of the left, and so if any common sense ruled their actions such a case will never be brought. But the desperation is palpable. Consider? since when is the NAACP, much less the left in general, a bunch of Right-to-Lifers? I mean, remember, this is the group that has for decades, now, supported genocide by abortion. Hardly a sign of a respect for life. And would they be quite so concerned about the protection of that right, were Martin to have killed Zimmerman, which he nearly did? I don?t think so, either. In real justice systems, the state decides what crime has been committed and charges somebody with it. In the Zimmerman trial, the state?s ?theory of the case? is that it has no theory of the case: might be murder, might be manslaughter, might be aggravated assault, might be a zillion other things, but it?s something. If you?re a juror, feel free to convict George Zimmerman of whatever floats your boat.Nailing a guy on something, anything, is a time-honored American tradition: If you can?t get Al Capone on the Valentine?s Day massacre, get him on his taxes. Americans seem to have a sneaky admiration for this sort of thing, notwithstanding that, as we now know, the government is happy to get lots of other people on their taxes, too. Ever since the president of the United States a man so cautious and deferential to legal niceties that he can?t tell you whether the Egyptian army removing the elected head of state counts as a military coup until his advisers have finished looking into the matter breezily declared that if he had a son he?d look like Trayvon, ever since the U.S. Department of so-called Justice dispatched something called its ?Community Relations Services? to Florida to help organize anti-Zimmerman rallies at taxpayer expense, ever since the politically savvy governor appointed a ?special prosecutor? and the deplorably unsavvy Sanford Police Chief was eased out, the full panoply of state power has been deployed to nail Zimmerman on anything. How difficult can that be in a country in which an Hispanic Obama voter can be instantly transformed into the poster boy for white racism? Who ya gonna believe ? Al Sharpton or your lying eyes? Reality rears its head eventually. At least, to most of us. The question now, is what becomes of Zimmerman? We see in the case of the Texas Abortion law how the left acts when legal things don?t go their way. And yes, we have seen riots already in reaction to this jury?s ruling. Having been found guilty by the leftist hacks running the news media, and by the NAACP, and the rest of the leftists operating outside the real world, the prospect for a normal life for Zimmerman seems dim at best regardless of legal actions. We are already seeing death threats against Zimmerman. Most definitely. The only people who should have guns are the cops who are constantly in the news for kicking in innocent people?s front doors with no-knock raids and killing people?s poodles and dachsunds because they?re not ?fraidy cats?. A community organized to protect itself from violent home invasions. It?s one thing to say don?t go walking down a dark alley if you feel that you have to arm yourself. It?s another thing if your neighborhood has become that dark alley. This also shows that black activist like Joy-Ann Reid on MSNBC claiming that Zimmerman was not in hand-cuffed is also wrong. What is odd is that they video still shows that MSNBC was wrong when they claim that there was no blood on the back of Zimmerman?s head. I also watched Toure get his pants whanked down in public when he claimed that Zimmerman could afford expensive lawyers due to his legal defense fund and then was quickly corrected in that Mark O?Mara was working pro bono. If the media has such a casual attitude toward fact checking, why would we believe anything they say. It seems like that for too many progressive commentators, they are not about to let the facts get in the way of their opinions. So the murder trial of George Zimmerman did not allow jurors to deliberate over the fairness of Florida?s outlandishly broad self-defense laws. It did not allow them debate the virtues of the state?s liberal gun laws or its evident tolerance for vigilantes which we now politely call ?neighborhood watch? . It did not permit them to delve into the racial profiling that Zimmerman may have engaged in or into the misconduct and mischief that Martin may have engaged in long before he took that fatal trip to the store for candy. These factors, these elements, part of the more complete picture of this tragedy, were off-limits to the ultimate decision-makers. What the verdict says, to the astonishment of tens of millions of us, is that you can go looking for trouble in Florida, with a gun and a great deal of racial bias, and you can find that trouble, and you can act upon that trouble in a way that leaves a young man dead, and none of it guarantees that you will be convicted of a crime. But this curious result says as much about Florida?s judicial and legislative sensibilities as it does about Zimmerman?s conduct that night. This verdict would not have occurred in every state. It might not even have occurred in any other state. But it occurred here, a tragic confluence that leaves a young man?s untimely death unrequited under state law. Don?t like it? Lobby to change Florida?s laws. No. The burden falls on the defendant in a Florida SYG assertion, not the state. The defendant is asserting that he/she qualifies for the immunity defined by a section of state law, and it is up to him/her to demonstrate that he/she satisfies the conditions laid out in the statute to qualify for that immunity. Just letting those supposed ?critical thinking? skill atrophy I see. Or is it willful ignorance. Just how have you arrived at this ?trigger happy fraidy-cats? determination? Or the ?going around with guns looking for trouble?? The facts in evidence are that Zimmerman was going to the store when he noticed a suspicious person in his neighborhood and call the police non-emergency number to report it as the police had requested residents do after a spate of robberies. While speaking with the police operator, Zimmerman left his vehicle to see where the suspicious person when when they left the area visible from the road. After the police operator advised they didn?t need him to do that, he slowed or stopped as evidenced by the reduction in his breathing and started discussing where and when to meet the police when they arrived to check out this non-emergency report. Now, based on Zimmerman?s account and it isn?t refuted by any physical evidence, the suspicious person appeared suddenly, verbally challenged him, then physically assaulted him. Now, so far, Zimmerman has done nothing ?trigger happy? or ?fraidy-cat? but has acted as a reasonable person might although perhaps imprudently since entering a dark area where a suspicious person was last scene does create an opportunity for said person to surprise and possibly attack. So, Zimmerman being beaten by said suspicious person who is astride him preventing any means of escape and, imprudently bashing his head into concrete, comes to the reasonable belief that if said bashing isn?t stopped he is in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury. Having screamed for help for nearly a minute, he then uses his lawfully carried firearm to force the suspicious 6? person to stop his attack. Unfortunately, Martin?s wound proves fatal and the suspicious person turned out to be 17-yr old with the physical attributes of healthy capable adult. There is the claim that Martin went for the holstered weapon, an act would support a reasonable belief of imminent death or serious bodily injury but the trial facts neither confirmed or disproved this claim. So where is the ?trigger happy fraidy-cat? in all that? Where is the looking for trouble? This was a tragic chain of events. If one really needs to assign blame, then the decision that sent everything wrong was Martin?s decision to physically attack Zimmerman. But that was probably driven more by the media and entertainment industries promotion of violence than any ill or criminal intent. @HarvardLaw92: Now I understand the old saw: ?You can always tell a Harvard man; you just can?t tell him much.? There?s so much stupid in what you say, it can only come from an Ivy Leaguer. Your average fool simply can?t get that much wrong. The really odd part is that, under Florida law as written, Martin would equally have been justified in using deadly force to protect himself. In fact, MORE SO, given that Zimmerman was armed and Martin wasn?t. Zimmerman represented more of a threat to Martin than vice versa. That is only apparent through hindsight. Martin didn?t know Zimmerman was armed, and Zimmerman didn?t know if Martin was armed. Ages aside, one was an athlete and one was a pudgy, dumpy guy. You guys seem to be scope locked on wanting to believe the version of events supplied by whichever participant in this sad event best dovetails with your own biases and prejudices. Hell, you?re actively pushing theories of the crime that support your own preconceived notions of how it all happened, despite there only being one witness Zimmerman who knows what happened. Actually, I?m basing it on evidence. The prosecution?s star witness testified that Martin made it all the way to the back yard of the house where was staying, and was angry at the ?creepy-ass cracker? who?d been following him from a distance. Then, Martin returned to confront the ?creepy-ass cracker? about 100 yards back from the house. Also, there were no indications that there was much of a fight, in the sense of both men getting violent. Apart from the gunshot, Martin suffered no injuries besides to his knuckles. Zimmerman, on the other hand, had bloody injuries to the front and back of his head ? and none to his knuckles. No, not conclusive, but again highly indicative that Martin did all the punching, and Martin was doing all the bleeding. But all that doesn?t matter to you, does it? ?How could there be? The only other witness to the events in question Martin is dead. ? There were in fact numerous eye and ear witnesses who could have supported the state, either by lying or by telling the truth. What they testified to, however, solely and exclusively supported George Zimmerman?s account?or said nothing at all of relevance against it. The timeline which supported the notion that all Martin had to do was to be safe was go home, where he had to lie in wait or double back to in any way encounter him, this is all that the 911 call and the time his girlfriend spent on the phone can support. ? In fact, MORE SO, given that Zimmerman was armed and Martin wasn?t. Zimmerman represented more of a threat to Martin than vice versa. ? That?s only true in the minds of people with a pathological fear of armed persons. There is no evidence whatsoever Zimmerman intended to harm Martin in any way right up until the point he was responding to Martin?s attack. Also the only account which dovetails with every known fact, with not one thing controverting it. The unsupported, inexplicable, vile faith in this affair is that on the part of Team Martin. You?re pointlessly repeating yourself. Repetition isn?t evidence. Come up with a timeline with respect to the phone calls which makes more sense than the one given by George Zimmerman. The case for Martin?s guilt and Zimmerman?s innocence is airtight, and it is not based solely on Zimmerman?s testimony, but on the testimony of numerous persons and their recollections are reinforced in their accuracy by the digital recording of phone calls and the digitally recorded times they began and ended. ?And he has?you suspend disbelief. ? With Martin having begun the whole thing by living the life he chose to lead, which by the evidence in the doubly password protected digital vault of his own phone, his school records, and the recreational pharmaceuticals in his blood was a life of flowering, violent criminality, who here is suspending disbelief? Where is any evidence George Zimmerman lied in any way? Name a single fact which controverts him! Just one. Ought to be easy for you. No such thing exists. It should be true in fact, is true in Fla. law, and was sadly not true for George Zimmerman, that there should be some evidence of a crime before you are held in arrest much less charged with murder. What the law says is, if there is no evidence against you, you should be let free. That?s the way it should be for everyone. This is a just protection to the manifestly, incontrovertibly innocent not to abused by police process. And before you answer, it has already happened in Florida post the passage of SYG. More than once. As I said above, the real fun from Zimmerman?s perspective is yet to come. He?ll almost certainly be facing a wrongful death suit, and he?s likely to lose that one. Freedom is meaningless if you?re destitute. And regardless of any outcome, Zimmerman?s life as he knew it before is realistically over. His punishment, if we?re honest about it, will likely never end. There will never be a place or time where he won?t have this hanging around his neck. And that?s just fine with me. Actions have consequences, and not all of them are legalities. ?Hmm, not seeing a big problem there either. Add it up and it equals ?fairly average teenager?, one that was on a run to the store for candy, no less.? ?Until you add black to the equation. Then he becomes a thug, a menace, a criminal, and someone who probably deserved to die. ? LOL, no, they didn?t use SYG in the criminal trial for a couple of reasons: 1 Zimmerman would not have had the option not to take the stand in an evidentiary hearing, and his testimony in that proceeding would be admissible and have been used against him by the defense in the subsequent criminal trial. 2 SYG pretty clearly nullifies immunity with regard to interactions which you instigate. Zimmerman would have been asked about that, have been forced to admit that he instigated the chain of events, and that brings our attention back to #1 All of which brings our attention to the overwhelming likelihood of a future civil action. Zimmerman, if he wishes to pursue SYG immunity in that action, will have to do what he didn?t want to do in his criminal trial ? #1 and #2 above. He will have to satisfy the judge in his civil case that he deserves immunity, and the outcome in his criminal trial has no bearing on that decision. It?s very much a case of him starting from scratch. Since the civil case is pretty much a given, as well as Zimmerman at least being somewhat likely to try to use it this time around, it merited discussion. So, he either goes for immunity in his civil case, which will likely be denied, or he proceeds on the same common law basis with its incumbent duty to retreat that he used in his criminal trial. With predictable results. And that, as that say, is the ballgame. Martin?s parents will pursue any such judgment until the end of time, and rightfully so. He?ll never be rid of it. @Eric Florack: Only the testimony of Zimmerman said Martin started it. The defense wants it both ways? they want us to believe that Martin ambushed Zimmerman, but they want us to believe Zimmerman?s statement which says Martin walked up to him and asked a question. With a true ambush? which any thinking person would agree would have been Martin?s tactic had he really been the aggressor? would have taken advantage of both stealth and speed. After all he had been a football player, as the defense was so quick to point out. He would have been ?trained? if you will, to get to his mark as quickly as possible.THEN, they want us to believe that Martin initiated an attack with his off left hand. That?s why their animation which depicted Martin striking with his left hand because it relates to the ONLY injury on Martin?s hands was so critical to them? they didn?t want the jury thinking, and asking why in the world anyone would initiate a a fight with their off hand. I?m just wondering why the prosecution didn?t exploit that. @Jeff Vojtko: Maybe Zimmerman should ha@tom perkins: Only the testimony of Zimmerman said Martin started it. The defense wants it both ways? they want us to believe that Martin ambushed Zimmerman, but they want us to believe Zimmerman?s statement which says Martin walked up to him and asked a question. With a true ambush? which any thinking person would agree would have been Martin?s tactic had he really been the aggressor? would have taken advantage of both stealth and speed. After all he had been a football player, as the defense was so quick to point out. He would have been ?trained? if you will, to get to his mark as quickly as possible. Does it make sense that he would do anything else? NO! THEN, they want us to believe that Martin initiated an attack with his off left hand. That?s why their animation which depicted Martin striking with his left hand because it relates to the ONLY injury on Martin?s hands was so critical to them? they didn?t want the jury thinking, and asking why in the world anyone would initiate a a fight with their off hand. I?m just wondering why the prosecution didn?t exploit that. ?Really? Because where I?m from, that is borderline harassment.? Where you?re from?Harvard?and it?s capture by the left is one of the manifold origins of many of this nation?s worst problems. Your judgement is worse than suspect, you?ve been indoctrinated to write stupidities like this, ?No, from my chair they both sound like the rantings of a racist asshole.?, without a trace of irony. I am judging Martin by the evident content of his character. People have a right to participate in neighborhood watches, whether particularly formal or loose knit, chartered by the national organization or not. You have a right to ask people in public what they are doing, privacy is for private property. Of course, they have a right to ignore you and keep on walking. You even have a right to proselytize them or spread your political views. It?s called the first amendment. Absolutely he didn?t, as you yourself admit, he turned to confront Zimmerman. I don?t know him. Only after I had first called 911 and had them on an open mic, and only if I had first ascertained if I felt you posed any current threat to my family. If I felt that, I would not leave my property, and I would be armed. I would of course not initiate an assault. It wasn?t Martin?s neighborhood, it was Zimmerman?s neighborhood. Martin was a temporary guest of his dad, to whose home he had been shunted because he was too wild a child for his mother. Zimmerman didn?t follow him home and didn?t sit outside his residence. If you make up whatever facts you need to support yourself, how do you support yourself? The bulk of it is Zimmerman doing what he has a perfect right to do, so what of it? ?I don?t have the slightest doubt in my mind that if Zimmerman had killed a white Eagle Scout on his way home from helping little old ladies, instead of Martin, you?d be apoplectic calling for his head on a platter and a needle in his arm. ? If the white Eagle Scout had a history of doing drugs, possessing stolen property, and assaulting people, no, I?d be supporting Zimmerman. Except I?d have never heard of the case, because there?d be no angle for professional racists like Jackson or Sharpton to work. ?As I said above, with you it isn?t about the crime. It?s about who you view as being the criminal. Wow are you ridiculous. What Martin did was lead a life which made it plausible he would assault someone, which life he recorded on his phone and on Facebook, and which records are in part public knowledge, and which have been testified to by the whistleblower who revealed the prosecution was concealing evidence from the phone potentially exculpatory to Zimmerman. This is only about what he did, which makes it perfectly believable he assaulted Zimmerman, surprised him, and put Zimmerman reasonably in fear of his life, so Zimmerman shot Martin dead with one shot fired. An aspect of which should impress you but won?t, he fired one shot, purposely; the gun didn?t malfunction. He saw Martin stop assaulting him after he fired the shot, and did not fire again. He acted more as a peace officer than most cops do, who are evidently trained to empty the magazine. You gave it a good go Harvard Law but labor in vain. I know Tom Perkins and crew?s kind quite well. Even well enough to know he?s not one of our typical southern bigots. They are much more likeable. He strikes me as probably one of the mid-western species. They have a bit more eloquence but a lot more asshole in the way they go about communicating their point of view. At any rate, with these guys there are only two end-games?That black is wrong and white is right. He and others are fundamentally incapable of believing any possibility other than the one given by the defense because that story frames the black victim in the worse possible light which is the default point of view they are programmed to gravitate to about non-white. Whatever narrative that makes non-whites appear animalistic and whites appear civilized and victimized is what they will believe. So when you present reasoning that challenges this programming, you are in fact challenging the very way the view the world. You might as well claim that Jesus was a Buddhist hermaphrodite. It ?s going to get similar traction. It?s really a simple pecking order for these mental peasants? black<non-white<white. If there is ever a tie? then it's poor<middle class<rich. This makes thinking about the world and issues of right and wrong very simple. I look at their posts strictly for entertainment value and to marvel at real live peasantry. Sometimes I wonder if they have lawn jockeys they keep for sentimental value. Or ringtones that go Yasza Bawse! Possible but unlikely, he didn?t make one decision that night unreasonable in foresight, and the evening had an acceptable conclusion in hindsight. People Martin who assault people, should understand they face a likelihood of being killed when they adopt that course of action. Being killed while undertaking that felony IS a just and proper outcome. ?The crap he?ll have to deal with now is pretty much forever, and that suits me just fine. ? There is in fact a quite increased likelihood he will not have to deal with it long, because of the lynch mob attitude you and others oh your ilk have adopted. No, you very sadly much are, morally and legally both. You show no awareness at all that even to have a trial was a grotesque perversion of justice and law, or that to try to buttress their already vacuous case, someone on the prosecution team has taken actions which will see them disbarred or even imprisoned for concealing evidence from the defense. There?s not a damned shred of evidence to support that story, let alone enough to convict someone of murder for it. Something motivated Martin to go back down the walkway, away from the safety of the house. I doubt it was fear, as he had his phone and it was working, but he didn?t call anyone for help or to alert them to his danger. Instead, he called his girlfriend and spoke angrily about the ?creepy-ass cracker? who had been following him. If you have anything to indicate that Zimmerman ?followed him home? and ?sat outside his house,? please cite it. And kindly refrain from the Joynerian ?I can?t imagine it happening any other way? argument. It does no such thing. RE SYG, It states that a person who has the right to be where they are has no right to retreat from a criminal. This is a right and proper attitude towards a criminal, if you chose to do so. RE the law of self defense just as you should be, you are empowered to employ lethal means of self defense when you have a reasonable expectation your life is in danger. Being beaten qualifies. In this case, Martin escalated to felony criminality by assaulting Zimmerman?there is no evidence to the contrary, circumstantial or otherwise, and all the evidence which exists shows Zimmerman was where he had a right to be, doing what he had a right to be doing. There should not have been a trial here, because there is no evidence against Zimmerman?that is why the prosecution?s witnesses sounded so much like defense witnesses. There is a duty not to assault. RE SYG, there is no duty, and can of right and per this law be no duty, to retreat from crime when you chose instead to stand against it. If there is no evidence you are in the wrong, you should be free to go. In the unlikely event both fired simultaneously, you?d be correct. In the real world, the question of who more reasonably feared danger would then need to be answered. That doesn?t happen often, though, does it? In the real world, the mugger says, ?Your money or your life.? and then you are and should be free to open fire if you can. No, I?m talking reality because this black teen made a thug of himself?to go by what he recorded of himself and boasted of online?and then he assaulted someone without provocation. Unlike liberal talking heads and politicians, I do care about the black males and women and babies who get killed by black on black violence every week, and I know for example, that Chicago will calm right the hell down as soon the common citizens of every color have the 2nd amendment protected rights respected by their city and state. The thugs can;t operate nearly so well when they know every thing the try might be the end of them, it?s worked the same way everywhere else int he country, it will work that way in Chicago too. Of course, it will work best if like in Florida, they have no duty to retreat from a criminal, and are protected from political trials when no evidence exists of their guilt. It won?t change my tune a bit, if like in this case there is no evidence against that liberal or minority, and there is evidence to support them. That?s the vile, evil thing about this show trial Zimmerman has illegally had to endure, there is no evidence against him, and there is strong evidence as to the criminality of Martin. This trial should never have been held. There is nothing about either the Stand Your Ground law or the law of self defense which permits or encourages the escalation of violence between two people of non-criminal intent, they solely have the effect of preferentially empowering non-criminal people in defending themselves against criminals.