George Zimmerman : NPR Skip to Main Content Search Toggle search Stations Donate Shop Sign In/Register Logout News Arts & Life Music Topics News U.S. World Politics Business Technology Science Health Race & Culture Education Arts & Life Books Movies Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Photography Music First Listen Songs We Love Music Articles Tiny Desk Concerts Videos Programs News and Conversations Morning Edition All Things Considered Fresh Air Here & Now The Diane Rehm Show Latino USA On The Media On Point Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday Storytelling & Humor Ask Me Another The Best Of Car Talk Bullseye Radiolab Snap Judgment StoryCorps TED Radio Hour Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Music All Songs Considered Alt.Latino First Listen From The Top Jazz Night In America Metropolis Microphone Check Mountain Stage Piano Jazz Song Travels The Thistle & Shamrock World Cafe Listen Stories About George Zimmerman Listen to recent stories Playlist browse by date subscribe share Lawyer Bruce Zimet comforts Marissa Alexander during a hearing Monday in Jacksonville, Fla. Bruce Lipsky/AP hide caption itoggle caption Bruce Lipsky/AP The Two-Way Florida Woman In 'Stand Your Ground' Case Accepts Plea Deal November 25, 2014 ? Marissa Alexander had been sentenced to 20 years in prison for firing what she said was a warning shot at her husband and his two children in 2010. Under the plea deal, she will serve 65 more days. George Zimmerman. Seminole Sheriff hide caption itoggle caption Seminole Sheriff The Two-Way George Zimmerman Charged With Aggravated Assault November 18, 2013 ? The former Neighborhood Watch volunteer acquitted in the killing of Trayvon Martin allegedly threatened his girlfriend with a gun. George Zimmerman. Gary W. Green/EPA/LANDOV hide caption itoggle caption Gary W. Green/EPA/LANDOV The Two-Way No More Guns For Neighborhood Watch In Sanford, Fla. October 31, 2013 ? Police in the city where the shooting death of Trayvon Martin ignited a national debate want to reinforce a rule that neighborhood watch volunteers like George Zimmerman should not be armed. George Zimmerman leaves court with his family after a jury found him not guilty in the murder of Trayvon Martin, in Sanford, Fla., on July 14. Joe Burbank/AP hide caption itoggle caption Joe Burbank/AP The Two-Way Police Question George Zimmerman After Confrontation With Wife September 9, 2013 ? Zimmerman's estranged wife called police, saying he threatened her with a gun, punched her dad and destroyed her iPad with a knife. Shellie Zimmerman in court on June 20. Gary W. Green/UPI/Landov hide caption itoggle caption Gary W. Green/UPI/Landov The Two-Way Probation For George Zimmerman's Wife On Perjury Charge August 28, 2013 ? Shellie Zimmerman pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge related to statements she made about her family's finances. Her husband was acquitted of all charges in the shooting death of African-American teen Trayvon Martin. George Zimmerman probably feared for his life, juror B37 told CNN. Gary W. Green/EPA/LANDOV hide caption itoggle caption Gary W. Green/EPA/LANDOV The Two-Way Zimmerman Juror: He 'Got Away With Murder' July 25, 2013 ? The only minority juror said she expected to be one to cause a hung jury, but when they were handed instructions, the law was clear. Protesters in support of Trayvon Martin march across the Brooklyn Bridge after attending a rally organized by the Rev. Al Sharpton on Sunday in New York City. Andrew Burton/Getty Images hide caption itoggle caption Andrew Burton/Getty Images The Two-Way 'Justice For Trayvon' Rallies Held In Numerous Cities July 20, 2013 ? The Rev. Al Sharpton's National Action Network says it's organized rallies in 100 cities across the country to press for civil rights charges against George Zimmerman. President Obama at the White House on Friday, as he spoke about the death of Trayvon Martin and the national discussion that the case has generated. Larry Downing /Reuters /Landov hide caption itoggle caption Larry Downing /Reuters /Landov The Two-Way Obama: 'Trayvon Martin Could Have Been Me 35 Years Ago' July 19, 2013 ? In extensive and personal comments about the Florida teen's death and the trial that just concluded with a not guilty verdict for the man who fired the fatal shot, the president urged Americans to consider why African-Americans have reacted so strongly. Listen Loading? Playlist Sybrina Fulton, the mother of Trayvon Martin, appears for an interview with NPR's Michel Martin at Tell Me More. Doriane Raiman/NPR hide caption itoggle caption Doriane Raiman/NPR The Two-Way Trayvon Martin's Mom: Jury Should Have Blamed 'Responsible Adult' July 18, 2013 ? Tracy Martin and Sybrina Fulton said they were devastated by the verdict. How can you let the killer of an unarmed teen go free? Tracy asked of the jury. George Zimmerman probably feared for his life, juror B37 told CNN. Gary W. Green/EPA/LANDOV hide caption itoggle caption Gary W. Green/EPA/LANDOV The Two-Way 4 Zimmerman Jurors: Juror B37 Does Not Speak For Us July 17, 2013 ? The jurors said the death of a teenager weighed heavily on our hearts. But they did what the law required. News U.S. World Politics Business Technology Science Health Race & Culture Education Arts & Life Books Movies Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Photography Music First Listen Songs We Love Music Articles Tiny Desk Concerts Videos Programs All Things Considered Ask Me Another The Best Of Car Talk Bullseye The Diane Rehm Show Fresh Air Here & Now Latino USA Morning Edition On The Media On Point Radiolab Snap Judgment StoryCorps TED Radio Hour Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday Listen Hourly News NPR Program Stream Find Station Streams Podcasts More Ways To Listen About Contact Us NPR Shop Visit NPR Careers at NPR Press Room 'This Is NPR' Blog Support and Sponsor Corrections NPR Ombudsman Permissions Email Newsletters RSS Feeds The NPR API ? 2014 NPR Help Contact Terms of Use Privacy Sponsorship Choices Text-Only ? 2014 NPR Attorney General Eric Holder speaks at the annual convention of the NAACP in Orlando, Fla., on Tuesday. Holder told the convention that Stand Your Ground laws that have been adopted in 30 states should be reconsidered. David Manning/Reuters /Landov hide caption itoggle caption David Manning/Reuters /Landov The Two-Way Holder Calls For 'Hard Look' At 'Stand Your Ground' Laws July 16, 2013 ? It's time to question laws that senselessly expand the concept of self-defense and sow dangerous conflict in our neighborhoods, the attorney general said Tuesday. Such a law hovered over the trial of George Zimmerman for the death of Trayvon Martin. George Zimmerman during his trial. Joe Burbank/pool /UPI/Landov hide caption itoggle caption Joe Burbank/pool /UPI/Landov The Two-Way 'Dear George Zimmerman' Letter Hits Home With Many July 16, 2013 ? Though he was found not guilty of murder in the death of Trayvon Martin, George Zimmerman is now going to feel what it's like to be a black man in America, writes a young African-American in a Facebook post that's gone viral. Los Angeles Police Department officers in riot gear detain a man after disturbances in the streets around Leimert Park. Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images hide caption itoggle caption Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images The Two-Way Zimmerman Trial: L.A. Mayor Calls For Calm After Violent Protests July 16, 2013 ? Eric Garcetti said while the trial in Florida may have ignited passions, it should not ignite the city. Los Angeles police said beginning Tuesday officers will take a stricter posture on demonstrations. In Los Angeles on Sunday, demonstrators expressed their anger over the acquittal of George Zimmerman on the charges he faced for the death of Trayvon Martin. Jim Ruymen /UPI /Landov hide caption itoggle caption Jim Ruymen /UPI /Landov The Two-Way Feds Unlikely To Prosecute Zimmerman, Former Prosecutors Say July 15, 2013 ? After seeing a Florida jury acquit George Zimmerman of the charges against him for the death of Trayvon Martin, those who have handled such cases on the federal level say they have doubts about the likelihood of a hate crimes prosecution being made. Listen Loading? Download Playlist Trayvon Martin supporters sit in New York City's Times Square on Sunday after marching from a rally for Martin in Manhattan. Mario Tama/Getty Images hide caption itoggle caption Mario Tama/Getty Images All Tech Considered Did Social Media Help Ease Tensions After Zimmerman Verdict? July 15, 2013 ? Protests of the George Zimmerman verdict remained largely peaceful this weekend, as social media continued to be the place to vent, bicker and debate over the killing of Trayvon Martin and its aftermath. George Zimmerman probably feared for his life, juror B37 told CNN. Gary W. Green/EPA/LANDOV hide caption itoggle caption Gary W. Green/EPA/LANDOV The Two-Way Juror: 'I Think It Was George Zimmerman's Voice' On 911 Tape July 15, 2013 ? Juror B37, a woman in her 50s from Seminole County, Fla., explains to CNN her thinking about a key piece of evidence in the case. George Zimmerman was acquitted over the weekend of charges in the death of Trayvon Martin. The Two-Way Holder: Trayvon Martin Case Is A Chance For 'Difficult Dialogue' July 15, 2013 ? In his first public comments since a jury acquitted George Zimmerman of all charges, Attorney General Eric Holder did not announce any new federal action on the case. Trayvon Martin supporters rally in New York's Times Square on Sunday. Mario Tama/Getty Images hide caption itoggle caption Mario Tama/Getty Images The Two-Way Zimmerman Trial: 6 Headlines That Tell The Story July 15, 2013 ? As the not-guilty verdict set in, protesters took to the streets and thinkers asked the big questions. Tammy Haynes, left, Whitney Tillman, center, and Crystal Haynes attend a sermon at the St. Paul Missionary Baptist Church in Sanford, Fla., Sunday. Many in the congregation wore shirts in support of Trayvon Martin. Phelan M. Ebenhack/AP hide caption itoggle caption Phelan M. Ebenhack/AP The Two-Way Sifting Through Emotions After Tense Zimmerman Trial July 14, 2013 ? George Zimmerman's verdict is in, but public opinion continues to play out. Some prayed or protested, while others felt justice had been served by Zimmerman's acquittal in the fatal shooting of black teen Trayvon Martin. George Zimmerman leaves court with his family after Zimmerman's not guilty verdict was read in Seminole Circuit Court in Sanford, Fla. on Saturday. Joe Burbank/AP hide caption itoggle caption Joe Burbank/AP The Two-Way Judge To Zimmerman: 'You Have No Further Business With The Court' July 14, 2013 ? Saturday night's acquittal of George Zimmerman is reigniting conversations that began with the 2012 fatal shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin. The case has sparked debates on race, profiling and Stand Your Ground laws. George Zimmerman wipes his face after arriving in the courtroom for his trial in Sanford, Fla., on Friday. Zimmerman is charged in the 2012 shooting death of unarmed teenager Trayvon Martin. Joe Burbank/AP hide caption itoggle caption Joe Burbank/AP Code Switch Awkwardly Awaiting The Zimmerman Trial's Outcome July 12, 2013 ? Officials are trying to head off possible violent reactions to the verdict, but isn't it weird to be sitting around discussing human behavior like weather patterns? George Zimmerman arrives in the courtroom for closing arguments in his murder trial on Friday in Sanford, Fla. Getty Images hide caption itoggle caption Getty Images The Two-Way Jury Begins Deliberation On Verdict In George Zimmerman Trial July 12, 2013 ? In closing, lawyers for the self-styled neighborhood watch volunteer accused in the fatal shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin say it's clear their client acted in self-defense during the 2012 confrontation. George Zimmerman in court on Thursday. Gary W. Green/pool/Getty Images hide caption itoggle caption Gary W. Green/pool/Getty Images The Two-Way READ: Instructions For The Jury In Trial Of George Zimmerman July 12, 2013 ? The defense is expected to finish its closing argument on Friday. Then, Judge Debra Nelson will instruct the jurors on what they are to consider as they weigh whether George Zimmerman acted in self defense or should be sent to prison for the shooting death of Florida teenager Trayvon Martin. George Zimmerman in court on Thursday. Gary W. Green/pool/Reuters/Landov hide caption itoggle caption Gary W. Green/pool/Reuters/Landov The Two-Way Zimmerman Jury Can Consider Lesser Charge, Judge Says July 11, 2013 ? As the trial for the man accused in the death of Trayvon Martin wraps up, the prosecution and defense argued over the instructions to the jury. Trayvon Martin's friend Rachel Jeantel testifies in the murder trial of George Zimmerman. Her testimony sparked discussions of the racial issues involved in the case. Jacob Langston /UPI /Landov hide caption itoggle caption Jacob Langston /UPI /Landov The Two-Way Defense Rests In Zimmerman Trial; Race 'Permeates The Case' July 10, 2013 ? As the high-profile trial of the man accused in the death of Trayvon Martin nears its end, race hasn't been talked about in the courtroom. But the issue is running through the case, legal experts tell NPR. More NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor Most Viewed U.S. Two Of Colorado's Neighbors Sue State Over Marijuana Law Space Once Written Off, Kepler Telescope Finds New Planet Energy No Fracking In New York? That's OK With Pennsylvania Support comes from: Search Home News Arts & Life Music More Topics Programs Donate Stations NPR Shop Sign In / Register Logout Back News U.S. World Politics Business Technology Science Health Race & Culture Education Arts & Life Movies Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Photography Books Book Reviews Author Interviews Music First Listen Songs We Love Music Articles Tiny Desk Concerts Videos Our Blogs Corrections All About NPR Back news & conversations storytelling & humor music also heard on npr stations Back Morning Edition All Things Considered Fresh Air Here & Now The Diane Rehm Show Latino USA On The Media On Point Science Friday Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday Back Ask Me Another The Best Of Car Talk Bullseye 		Radiolab 		Snap Judgment StoryCorps 		TED Radio Hour Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! Back All Songs Considered Alt.Latino First Listen From The Top Jazz Night In America Metropolis Microphone Check Mountain Stage Piano Jazz Song Travels The Thistle & Shamrock World Cafe Back A Prairie Home Companion APM 					Marketplace APM Science Friday This American Life PRX 		Public Radio Programs A to Z