CAIRO ? His fate hanging in the balance, embattled President Mohammed Morsi vowed not to resign yesterday, hours before a deadline to yield to the demands of millions of protesters or see the military suspend the constitution, disband parliament and install a new leadership. The Islamist leader demanded that the armed forces withdraw their ultimatum, saying he rejects all ?dictates? ? from home or abroad. On the streets, the sense that both sides were ready to fight to the end sharpened, with clashes between his supporters and foes that left at least 23 dead, most of them in a single incident outside Cairo University. In an emotional speech aired live to the nation, Morsi, who a year ago was inaugurated as Egypt?s first freely elected president, pledged to protect his ?constitutional legitimacy? with his life. He accused loyalists of his ousted autocratic predecessor, Hosni Mubarak, of exploiting the wave of protests to topple his regime and thwart democracy. ?There is no substitute for legitimacy,? said Morsi, who at times angrily raised his voice, thrust his fist and pounded the podium. He warned that electoral and constitutional legitimacy ?is the only guarantee against violence.? Morsi?s defiant statement showed that he and his Muslim Brotherhood are prepared to run the risk of challenging the army. It also entrenches the lines of confrontation between his Islamist supporters and Egyptians angry over what they see as his efforts to impose control by his Muslim Brotherhood and his failures to deal with the country?s problems. The crisis has become a struggle over whether a popular uprising can overturn the verdict of the ballot box. Morsi?s opponents say he has lost his legitimacy through mistakes and power grabs and that their turnout on the streets over the past three days shows the nation has turned against him. For a third day yesterday, millions of jubilant, chanting Morsi opponents filled Cairo?s historic Tahrir Square, as well as avenues adjacent to two presidential palaces in the capital and main squares in cities nationwide. After Morsi?s speech, they erupted in indignation, some raising their shoes in the air in a show of contempt. ?Leave, leave,? they chanted. Morsi ?doesn?t understand. He will take us toward bloodshed and civil war,? said Islam Musbah, a 28-year-old protester. The president?s supporters also moved out in increased marches in Cairo and other cities. Morsi?s supporters have stepped up warnings that it will take bloodshed to dislodge him. While Morsi has stuck to a stance that he is defending democracy in Egypt, many of his Islamist backers have presented the fight as one to protect Islam. Political violence was more widespread yesterday, with multiple clashes between the two camps in Cairo as well as in the Mediterranean city of Alexandria and other cities. A march by Morsi supporters outside Cairo University came under fire from gunmen on rooftops. At least 23 people were killed in Cairo and more than 200 in- jured, according to hospital and security officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. Most of the killings took place outside Cairo University, located at Cairo?s twin city of Giza. The official Al-Ahram website reported that the armed forces deployed armored vehicles to the area. The deaths take to at least 39 the number of people who have died since the first day of protests, Sunday, many of them in shootings of anti-Morsi gatherings. Morsi went on TV hours after meeting with Defense Minister Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi, with the prime minister also present. On Monday, the military gave Morsi an ultimatum to meet the protesters? demands within 48 hours. If not, the generals? plan would suspend the Islamist-backed constitution, dissolve the Islamist-dominated legislature and set up an interim administration headed by the country?s chief justice, the state news agency reported. At least one anti-Morsi TV station put up a clock counting down to the end of the military?s ultimatum, putting it at 4 p.m. today 10 a.m. EDT , though a countdown clock posted online by Morsi opponents put the deadline at 5 p.m. 11 a.m. EDT . The military did not give a precise hour. If the military intervenes, a panel of experts would draft a new constitution and the interim administration would be a presidential council led by the Supreme Constitutional Court?s chief justice and including the defense minister, representatives of political parties, youth groups, Al-Azhar Mosque and the Coptic Church. That?s according to Hossam Sweilam, a retired general with close ties to the military. He said the military envisioned a one-year transitional period before presidential elections are held. The leaking of the military?s political ?road map? appeared aimed at adding pressure on Morsi by showing the public and the international community that the military has a plan that does not involve a coup. Fearing that Washington?s most-important Arab ally would descend into chaos, U.S. officials said they were urging Morsi to take immediate steps to address opposition grievances, telling the protesters to remain peaceful and reminding the army that a coup could have consequences for the massive American military-aid package it receives. Morsi also faced new fissures within his leadership. Three government spokesmen were the latest to quit as part of high-level defections that underscored his increasing isolation and fallout from the military?s ultimatum. Five cabinet ministers, including the foreign minister, resigned Monday, and a sixth, Sports Minister El-Amry Farouq, quit yesterday. In a significant move, opposition parties and the youth movement behind the demonstrations agreed that reform leader and Nobel Peace laureate Mohamed ElBaradei would represent them in any negotiations on the country?s political future. The move appeared aimed at presenting a unified voice in a post-Morsi system, given the widespread criticism that the opposition has been too fragmented to present an alternative to the Islamists.