Three time Presidential candidate, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari rtd , has warned political leaders in the country to take a cue from what happened in Egypt a few days ago. Egyptian President, Mr. Mohammed Morsi, was on Thursday overthrown by the country?s military after days of protest near the Presidential Palace. Speaking at the public presentation of two books by Malam Nuhu Ramalan, Head of Political Science Department of the Federal College of Education FCE , Zaria, the former Head of State said: ?I encourage young men to buy the books to know their history. Although I know history would keep on repeating itself, as it has just been in Egypt. Nigeria would not be an exception, and by the way we?are going only God knows where we are going to end up, but I hope we would end up well?. The Congress for Progressive Change CPC leader also vowed to remain in active politics despite the fact that he ?ended from the Head of State to a prisoner of sort that did not stop me to attempt to get back through the other means; that is politics. And after three unsuccessful attempts, I refused to give up. I tried to, but my supporters wouldn?t support my throwing in the towel. So, I intend to fight on in spite the challenges.? Commenting on the books, ?Nigerian Military in Politics; 1966 to 2011 and Politics of Transition to Civil Rule; 1966 to 1999?, General Buhari recalled that when he was Head of State, he encouraged young intellectuals and even brought some of them on board; a move that saw the emergence of Ibrahim Gambari as foreign minister. Buhari said ?the deterioration of the culture caused the lack of accountability in the system, and it has now gone absolutely wide. When the military and the political leadership came, they were so corrupt and they destroyed these institutions.? While quoting Obama as saying that African countries are bedeviled with problem of strong leaders and institutions, Buhari said ?Paradoxically, in Nigeria it is the strong leaders that destroy the strong institutions by corruption and laziness of some sort.? We know Nigeria is not doing well in terms of corruption record, but let me remind Buhari that it did not start today. His inclination to use of violence in solving any national problem is highly condemnable. I will continue to pray that we dont have two of your kind in this country to avoid a civil war. Your do or die pattern of trying to enter Aso rock is the force driving you to all these violent behaviour. The new party now being formed that would have fought PDP, you are trying to cause problem there because of your quest for power. Well, if violence comes, people like you will go first. You will be surprise that the Egypt version of what your Buhari is talking about will start and end in the south west, and by the time it is over, there will be nothing like Nigeria. In sane climes, someone of Buhari?s past would not come to the public and ask to rule over a people, most of whom are civilised and non-religious. What happen in Egypt can never happen in Nigeria except a fundamentalist like Buhari is in the position of rulership, but good enough Nigerians will continue to reject him at the polls. You re now a rtd soldier Mr Buhari. So, you don?t ve the ultimate power to decide on what will happen in this great country. I think is high time for Mr president to look into matters especially when it comes to things that concerns Buhari. Buhari had made over statements that will lead to jail him but since Gudluck ve decided to pardon him, we the masses will declare state of emergence on him one day. Buhari should bear in mind that he will never be the president of Nig again bcos, he is full of corruption. I am sorry that all my contributions through this media is never published even when my ideas are full of suggestions to better this Country.However I shall continue to offer my well refined candid opinion to remedi the ills of this Country..If the editor of this media outlet want to use my suggestions as His, He can jolly fine do so. Now for those who support Major General B?s utterances why not He make the same statement when OBJ was on seat. I don?t know the why people don?t digest articles before responding to it. To me what General Buhari is saying is a bitter truth that all our political leaders need to learn from, all of you that are abusing this general are you telling us nigeria is run the way it should be run? I strongly disagree. There can not be peace in the country if people like IBB, Buhari, Obasanjo, Jonathan, Gowan, Atiku and all those past and immediate senators and retired generals are all killed then this country will know peace. Affairs of this country is like a relay race where Barton is being pass from one person to another in the same house or carcous. If this country will only know peace when military takes over then let it come to past by God grace. Buhari is muslim fundamentalist, who believe that only muslims can rule this country as a G od given birthright. He has not woken up from his dream that the days of military coups is over in Nigeria. Thanks to Obasanjo for liberating the South from the slavery of the core north. Is Buhari aware the Middle Belters have woken up from their slumber and have realised the gospel of lengendry Joseph Tarka that middle Belt is not part of the north? The minorities are no longer slaves. Any attempt to change the staus quo now by military coup will only lead to the disintegration of Nigeria.