Thank you all for visiting, reading and sharing the news with me on the Fukushima Appeal Blog. I?ve kept it running since February 2012. Unfortunately, I will need some break now to attend to some of my health issues. I would like to thank this blog and its supporters for giving me an opportunity to become a part of the slowly awakening global community during this very important time of global change. I had zero knowledge of nuclear before the Fukushima disaster, and was and still am a just normal citizen. It?s been hard to see Japan becoming a criminal, immoral and authoritarian country since the Fukushima Disaster. So it?s been a huge awakening and healing process to have a platform to speak out instead of feeling powerless, angry and sad about it. With the new secret law that is going to be introduced in Japan soon, Japanese people will need more help than at any other time in its history from foreign bloggers, doctors and scientists. Please remember Fukushima. I hope that the more difficulties we may encounter, the stronger and connected we will become to fight against injustice and be able to act from our heart space. Mia For more Fukushima update go to: www.nuclear-news.net, http://fukushima-diary.com/, https://www.facebook.com/fukushima311watchdog, http://enenews.com/, http://www.fukuleaks.org/web/, http://www.nuclearhotseat.com/ 	 	 	 	http://ex-skf.blogspot.co.uk/ Anand Grover, Esq., UN Special Rapporteur on the right to health, criticizes UNSCEAR report on Fukushima -10/24/2013 1 of 4 ?????????????? ???????????????? : ?????????? Video - http://vimeo.com/78483070 October 24, 2013 NYC, NY *Atomic bombs survivors received fair compensation, not so in Fukushima! 	 	 	 	 Ms. Mari TAkenouchi is a freelance journalist, Anti-nuke translator and lives with her son in Naha-shi, Okinawa, Japan. The most prominent example of health effects on Fukushima children is observed in the Fukushima prefectural health control survey for children under 18. Amazingly, thyroid cysts or cysts were observed among 43% of the subjects and among the girls between 6 to 10 years old, the figures exceed 50%. The leader of this health survey team, Dr. Shunichi Yamashita had conducted thyroid echo tests on 250 children in Nagasaki in 2000, and only 2 0.8% were detected with cysts. However, Fukushima health survey team made an excuse that the current echo machine is more refined and can detect 1mm nodule image while the one in 10 years ago detected only 5mm or above. As for this issue, Dr. Masamichi Nishio, the director of Hokkaido Cancer Center compared children with cysts more than 5.1mm in Fukushima one and half years after the accident with the one in Chernobyl 10 years after the accident. Dr. Nishio said that already 5 times more children are detected with cysts of 5.1mm or larger in Fukushima compared to Chernobyl and this figure could be bigger as the time elapses. It is not only thyroid cancer which is caused by radiation. If people have inhaled a large amount of radionuclides, respiratory abnormalities surely can be predicted and I?ve heard and read that there have been many respiratory diseases observed in Chernobyl contaminated areas. According to Dr. Akira Sugenoya, who had worked in Belarus for 5 years for medical support, one in 6 thyroid cancer child patient later developed lung cancer. Moreover, some medical circles send out more concrete messages. Thyroid Association announced a written notice to thyroid doctors in Japan not to conduct further thyroid tests on Fukushima children, which hampers the parents from getting second opinions or second test. However, some parents managed to get the second opinion and some found more nodules in their children?s thyroid. The interval of 2 years for the next examination may become too late for some patients considering the possibility of aggravation of cysts and nodules, metastasis of cancer to lymph and other tissues. Also as I mentioned before, there was a patient whose nodule was only 5mm and cancer was found. Irrespective of the size, biopsy should be available. On September 11, 2012, regretfully, the first thyroid cancer patient was found only a road outside of the evacuation zone. At the announcement of this sad news, the causal relationship with the radiation was denied promptly by the committee members of the prefecture.? Even more serious issue is that the government stopped announcement of further thyroid cancer cases. There was a additional case of a child who needed further testing in 2011 October, but the result has been concealed. On my telephone inquiry, the person in charge at Fukushima prefecture health examination told me, ?We are not aware of the result, though the result should have been released sometime ago.? On top of that a doctor I know directly know the case of another child who got thyroid cancer in Fukushima. In total, at least three children got thyroid cancer in Fukushima, but only one case has been released so far. A sad news came finally on February 13, it was reported on the net and local news that 3 thyroid cancer patients were found among Fukushima children out of 38000 who had gone through medical inspection. Compared to the regular thyroid cancer incident rate among children with 1 out of 180000 according to National Cancer Center data, so this is approcimately10 times high! Moreover, 7 more children are now highly suspected to have cancer among the above children. This is such a scandal and I believe this could be on the top news in the world. However, since the sole state-owned TV station NHK, has not broadcasted on Fukushima children?s thyroid examination itself, this scandal is amazingly not known to public. On the contrary, Dr. Shunichi Yamashita, who has been gathering the most criticisms from the citizens by nuclear accident affected areas, was honored with ?Dr. Takemi Memorial Award? Dr. Takemi is the name of former president of Japan Medical Association and also World Medical Association in December 2012. This simple fact shows how medical associations are corrupt with interested groups. I believe that Dr. Yamashita keeps his silence regarding this genetic study in fear that the apparent adiation effects on Fukushima residents could be revealed through genetic test results. Meanwhile, children in Fukushima are being exposed to radiation day to day, with their genes being affected by radiation. I simply believe this is a crime by doctors/scientists who take the side of state power. Truly, it is a very scary fact that a doctor like Shunichi Yamashita is the President of the Japan Thyroid Association and Director of the WHO Collaborating Center for Research on Radiation Emergency Medical Preparedness and Response Network. He was the one who told Fukushima residents, ?It is no problem to be outside until the air dose will reach 100 micro Sv/h,? and corrected himself 10 days later on March 22, saying, ?It was 10 micro Sv/h, not 100 micro Sv/h. I apologizes.? Moreover, I heard quite an amazing story, from a doctor I know. According to him, at a radiation related symposium for medical workers, a radiation expert doctor stated in his speech, ?At the time of echo examination for arteriosclerosis in neck area, tell the echo technician not to leave a photo or written record of thyroid even if a cyst is found there.? According to this doctor, he has never heard of this kind of restriction since he became a doctor decades before. Not only that, he mentioned that similar kinds of self ?restraints are widely observed in hospitals avoiding the topic of radiation exposure. It is quite a matter of concern that Japanese doctors themselves avoid the issues of radiation exposure in their daily practices in this contaminated land. 1. Fukushima prefecture thyroid test progress and result as of November 1, 2012