Comment: Reports that China is readying a fleet of it's own survey vessels pictured above to assist their oil drilling ships in their mission to steal oil from the Japanese Exclusive Economic Zone EEZ as spelled out by the United Nations Law of the Sea UNLOS treaty. They are being sent to the region to meet give a warm reception and a quick trip to the bottom to their Japanese counterparts if needed. Of course if the Chinese are to be believed here, this build up and brinksmanship wouldn't happen if Japan just changed? their attitudes. Sounds like the same line of daily BS coming from the Obama-Nation of Desolation Administration as it pertains to Syria. I guess that means we're screwed on both sides of the continent! Hollywood movie director Oliver Stone is set to visit Hiroshima, Nagasaki and Okinawa Prefecture for the first time next month, and he has promised to reveal ?disturbing facts? about the atomic bombings of 1945, as well as other little-known historical facts. He discovered these findings while he was producing the TV documentary series, ?The Untold History of the United States?. The documentary was Stone?s writing collaboration with Peter Kuznick, a 65-year-old associate professor of history at American University. It presented an alternative view of contemporary American history, and in one of the 10 episodes, they tackled the US atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the only nuclear weapon attacks in history. The episode showed that there was a lot of opposition from people in the Truman administration with regards to the plan to attack Japan with atomic bombs. They showed the process that led to the decision to push through with the attack, but the documentary?s position was that it was possible to end World War II without having to resort to the bombing. This is contrary to the generally accepted idea that was the only way to avoid invading Japan using conventional forces. Kuznick goes to Hiroshima and Nagasaki annually through an educational organization, the Peace Philosophy Center, and he brings his students along. Stone decided to join this year because he wanted to meet with the survivors of the bombings and listen to their experiences. ?Peter and I hope to reach as much of the Japanese public as possible with the disturbing findings of ?The Untold History of the United States? ?, he added. As for Okinawa, he wants to meet the people living in the area that is ?in the forefront of the civil struggle against militarism and colonialism.? He said he wanted to hear the opinions of the people about the fact that the southern island hosts 70% of the US bases that are in Japan. ?I intend to show solidarity with their powerful movement, which is an inspiration to anti-base forces everywhere,? he concludes. Comment: Note to Oliver, the people of Nagasaki and Hiroshima don't give a shit about the people of Okinawa and the people of Okinawa feel the same way about their brothers and sisters in the two previously mentioned cities. This is not at all unlike the fact that you don't give a shit about the truth unless it forwards your agenda. For example, it's not as you like to claim, just capitalism that kills. More correctly, it's the statist ideologies like socialism, communism, fascism, monarchies and oligarchies that your friends like Hugo and Fidel have turned into totalitarian hell holes that are mostly responsible for the democide of more than 200 million innocent people during the last century... My how times have changed. Forty years later and the world is starving for oil.To top it all off, in 1970 it was too risky to get that oil. Now they have the technology to go get it safely. What makes it even more attractive is that this is right in your own back yard. Having a supply of your own means you aint got to buy it from someone wearing a suicide belt who's anxious to meet Allah and take you with them just so they can get their horny little hands on a bunch of under-aged virgins to boink for the rest of eternity. If your China, Taiwan, South Korea or Japan, this isn't just a field of oil, it's a field of dreams! Now that most of Japan is in the midst of a hot, sweltering summer, it?s a good time to take a look at the traditional cuisine of a part of the country that lives with warm weather throughout the year: Okinawa. Anime master Hayao Miyazaki blasted the government?s push to revise the Constitution, saying that politicians without any understanding of history ?shouldn?t be messing? with the foundation of the country. In a magazine published last week by his production company, Studio Ghibli, the award-winning director said he is ?disgusted? by proposals to replace the Constitution, including war-renouncing Article 9. ?To take advantage of the low voter turnout and to change the Constitution without giving it serious thought is unacceptable,? Miyazaki wrote, apparently referring to the ruling Liberal Democratic Party?s win in Sunday?s Upper House poll. ?I am clearly against it.? Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, the LDP leader, has been pushing for amending the Constitution, ultimately hoping to defang the war-renouncing Article 9. Comment: Normally I don't give much credit to a celebutard. Lord knows that in America, we have more than our fare share of them. Usually they are useful idiots who simply spout off whatever neo-Marxist claptrap they've been hearing in the cocktail party circuit. But, every once in a while, you find one that makes a little bit of sense. As it pertains to the nation's constitution, I believe that is is something that should not be easily trifled with. That is why what this gentleman said resonated with me. It's not just because of the idiots in charge at the moment that should make you reluctant to change or for that matter, disregard your nation's constitution. It's really because of the idiots who follow. You see, that's because instead of just wiping their butts with it, the next bunch of whiz kids will likely shred it to pieces, and stomp all over it and while they're at it, they'll trample the people's rights to death under it. Think of that scene near the end of the movie Animal House where Dean Wormer shouts back and one of the movies anti-heroes, I'll tell you what's fair! In 1975, explorers made a fascinating discovery on Ie Island in an area called Gohezu Yama ???? . It is here, inside a cave, that human remains were found dating back to the Paleolithic Era between 2.5 million to 10,000 B.C . Specifically, these remains were thought to originate some time around 20,000 B.C. 1 .