Kate Middleton and Prince William have revealed to the world they've named the royal baby Prince George Alexander Louis of Cambridge. The royal baby has been named - HRH Prince George Alexander Louis of Cambridge The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge made the eagerly-awaited announcement?shortly after they'd left Kensington Palace with their newborn and arrived safely at the Middleton family home in Bucklebury, Berkshire. The proud parents' decision to name their son George - the patron saint of England - was a bookies' favourite and is on par with the 2013 baby names trend. Sarah Barrett, managing editor at BabyCentre, told Yahoo! Lifestyle George is one of the most popular names with new parents opting for respected, solid names this year. George was predicted by our mums. ?It's quite popular, our first half of the year results for 2013 show George was ninth, she said. ??? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?? [Royal couple reveal baby name to the world] [WATCH Prince George give his first royal wave!] [Prince George's diary: 'Uncle Harry has just bought me a ticket to Vegas 2031!'] Revealing the meaning of the royal baby's full name, she explained: George means farmer, earth worker, while?Alexander means to defend and Louis 'famous warrior.' It's a good mix of trend and tradition. And could there perhaps be some significance in the order of baby George's name, with a more down-to-earth moniker being considered first before names of leadership? I guess we'll never know, Sarah smiled. George is more down to earth. Plus it?can't be shortened, so you won't get a nickname. William and Kate gaze lovingly at their son, the future King of England And?it goes well with Cambridge; something with more syllables may have been too much. Naturally, Sarah is expecting to see a huge rise in the names over the next year. But will such a traditional name come as a surprise to anyone? They probably would have never gone for something celebrity, she admitted. Babycentre mums were hoping for something traditional but with a modern twist, like Alfred which can be shortened to Alfie, or Albert which could be Albie. And Sarah believes the Duke and Duchess waited to reveal the royal baby's name until they'd met him to decide for sure. But they obviously wanted to wait to meet him to decide for sure. Tell us what you think of the royal baby's name over on Twitter, now.